--- page 1 ---
THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL

VOL. XLIll NO. 6

VOL. XLIll NO. 6

KENTUCKY WOMEN WILL WIN THE SCHOOL VOTE

Big Majority for it in the House The bill giving school suffrage to women has passed the Lower House of the Kentucky Legislature by an overwhelming majority.

MME. CURIE CLEARED

The Aspersions upon Her Character Definitely Disproved

Most American readers got the impression from the press despatches that the outcome of a recent trial in paris established (by implication) a charge of a serious nature against Mme. Curie. All our readers will be glad to learn that this was not true. Mrs. Hertha Ayrton, a distinguished scientist and a woman very highly respected in England, writes to the London Standard:

“In the report given in your valuable paper of the suffrage debate on Saturday last between Mrs. Sproson and Mrs. Stewart, occurs the following passage: “She (Mrs. Stewart) doubted the educative power of the vote, or its alleged beneficial effect on the standard of morals. A reference to Mme. Curie caused cries of “Shame!" to be raised. May I explain that the cries were directed, not against Mme. Curie, as some might think, but against the woman who dared to repeat a lie that has long been disproved? If any of your readers are curious, they will find in Le Temps for Nov. 5, 1911, a complete disproot ofthe accusation made against Mme. Curie— disproof that was the result of a careful imvestige tion made by that journal and of evidence given by some of the most dis tinguished men of science in France

“The scientific woman is peculiarly open to misunderstanding and misrepresentation from the very nature of her work. She must frequently conduct experiments alone in a room with only one other person, who has usually to be a man, because at present so few women are fitted for the post. But to the investigator the collaborator is neither man nor woman, but simply a mind, engaged with her mind, in tracking down an idea—in solving a problem. She cannot be bothered to consider the sex of her colleague, nor, indeed, would it ever enter into her head to do so.

“A great woman like Madame Curie will always be a mark for the envy and spite of small minds, but, to one who has seen her in her own home, the devoted and adoring mother of her two daughters, no such accurate evidence of her innocence as was forthcoming is necessary to prove that she is as pure and noble as she is great." TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME NEEDS MOTHERS

A New Conception of Home iIs Required to Meet New Conditions— Women's Oversight Needed for Work Rooms and Streets At the Child Welfare Conference at Northampton, Mass., on Feb. 2, Dr. Helen C. Putnam of Providence said:

The reason for homes not developing the kind of citizens we need is that fathers and mothers confuse the house for eating, sleeping and some other domestic matters with the idea of home. They have been srowing so long into this shortsightedness that the word itself has acquired new definitions. Webster gives as obsolete the original meaning of the word home—village, estate (on which villages would be), and gives, as the first synonym of today, tenement. We no longer conceive home as the place for the life work, for education, for entertainment.

(Continued on Page 46)

Official Organ of the National American Woman Suffrage Association

F. MEN WISH T0 THEIR VIEWS REPRESENTED IN LEGISLATION, LET THEM COAX AND ARGUE AND USE THENFLENCE A PERA ey ceve e . e 0PE he w w

Vould Man Consider Himself Fully Emancipated Under These Conditions?

NATIONAL CHILD LABOR CONFERENCE MEETS

t Almost Resolved itself into a Suffrage Convention

The recent National Child Labor Conference held in Louisville, Ky. Jan. 25-28, was so surcharged with suffrage sentiment that we thought ourselves back in the Suffrage Convention. Mrs. Kelley, Jean Gordon, Mrs. Millie R. Trumbull, Mr, Owen Lovejoy were prominent figures in the Conference, and let no opportunity slip to point out the help women would give towards regulating the labor of children if they were allowed to vote. A delegate from Colorado declared that Colorado had ne child-labor problem, that the men and women of the State had legislated child labor out of existence. Indeed, it seemed to be the sense of the Conference that “votes for women" is one of the most direct and important steps leading towards the ultimate end of the Child Labor Committee—the abolition of child labor.

The sympathy voiced with these suffrage sentiments whenever they were expressed is but one of the many signs that Louisville is awake to the importance of the suffrage issue. The Suffrage Association itself has more than doubled its membership sinee the National Suffrage Convention in October, and has reorganized along district lines, with plans for more active work. It has sent speakers on suffrage to fourteen different clubs in the last three months, in addition to conducting a regular series of meetings of the association to discuss politieal problems. The interest

(Continued on Page 16)

(Continued on Page 16)

SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1912

THE POSITION REVERSEI

CANDIDATES' VIEWS. ON SUFFRAGE A FACTOR They Are the Object of Keen interest in lowa

A friend in Des Moines says in a private letter: “I wish I could write you of the situation in Iowa, and especially in Des Moines. It is keenly interesting. The fact that Mr. Cummins has entered the race for Presidential nomination adds to it. He has never placed himself on record for equal suffrage.

“Woodrow Wilson's manager here— in a progressive Republican State— came out unequivocally for his candidate for suffrage. If Mr. Cummins is holding the Progressives in Iowa for Mr. La Follette, how can he and his managers suppose they are going to do it without the equal suffrage plank? “Lieutenant-Governor Clarke is out for Governor. So is Professor Holden, of Ames College (Agricultural). Mr. Holden does not hesitate a moment. He talks to the farmers' wives for votes. Mr. Clarke, while courteous and entirely fair as chairman of the Senate last session, is firmly opposed.

“It certainly is a nice game. I do not look to see either Mr. Clarke or Senator Cummins come out for suffrage. Ingrained prejudice and the natural, refined, protective attitude toward women and other dependents, however unreasonable, are hard to uproot."

The bill. to establisn a Children's Bureau has passed the U. S. Senate. The Ohio Supreme Court has upheld the constitutionality of the law limiting women's hours of labor.

GAGGED AND BOUND

oston Teachers Are Forbidden to Try to Secure “Any Legislation in Their Own interest" Except Through the School Board—A Blanket Injunction Which Will Prevent Their Petitioning the Legislature, Testifying at Legislative Hearings, Writing to the Papers or Belonging to the School Voters' League

The Boston School Board at its first meeting for the season passed the following order:

“Employees shall not make political speeches, solicit or make contributions for political objects, belong to any club or association having political purposes, nor take active part in political management or political campaigns. They shall not during school hours or on school premises engage in political discussion or political activity of any sort. They shall not directly or indirectly attempt to mfluence any legislation in their own interest as employees, except by petitions addressed to the board. They shall not engage in political activity of any other type. Nothing herein contained shall be construed as denying to employees the right to sign nomination papers, to vote as they please, or to express privately outside of school premises their political opinions."

The School Board, of course, has a right to say what teachers may do upon school premises, but it has no moral right, and we doubt its having any legal right, to forbid them from petitioning the Legislatare for more pay, or from trying to enlighten the public as to any grievances that they may have. The teachers of New York (Continued on Page 46)

FIVE CENTS

WOMEN VOTERS BEAT STANDARD OIL They Defeat the Octopus in a Local Election in New Jersey

One hundred women of Linden Township “put a crimp in the Standard Oil octopus” recently, when they went to the polls from miles around in stage coaches and defeated the proposition to purchase a site offered for school purposes by the Standard Oil Company. The press despatches say:

“The site is located between Edgar road and the Pennsylvania Railroad, and is valued at $4,000. The Standard Oil Company offered to exchange it to the township for the old Woodbridge avenue site of the Linden School, which was burned down some weeks ago. The vote against the Standard oOil site proposition was 107 to 19. Most of those voting 'No' were women. “The Standard wanted the other site for the purpose of extending its big plant.

“There was hardly a farmer's wife or daughter in the township who did not turn out. The two local stagecoaches were busy from morning till night, and were said to have been paid for by some of the wealthy women of the place. “The women and men who won the victory celebrated the occasion with a dance in the evening at Goger's Hall."

“IF I WERE A WOMAN"

udge Lindsey Gives a Spicy Account of What He Would Do If He Were a Modern Woman—Says Politics Is Not a Dirty Game When Played As it Should Be, and Urges Women to Take a Hand

A stimulating and inspiring article by Judge Lindsay in The Housekeeper for February is entitled “If I Were a Woman." It is enough to set every honest and plucky, woman wishing to go to the polls. After the sickly sentimentalities on the woman question that have been printed so plentifully of late, it comes like a breeze of wholesome fresh air. Judge Lindsey says:

If I were a woman in 1912 1 would give my first and best effort to this thought, that politics is nothing more mor less than public housekeeping— the mere expression of the common will in matters that pertain to -the common good. Politics is mot a “dirty game" in itself, but has been made so by public enemies, thieves, and traitors, and, to protect themselves in their pillage and corruption, they point warning and imploring fingers at their own grime when honest folk approach.

If pitch were spilled on a parlor floor, would you quit the house? If the cook got drunk, dishonest, or inefficient, would you refuse to interfere on the ground that housekeeping was a “dirty game"?

1 would ask myself the question, “What, When, and Why is a Home?" The “old home" was a close corporation. The women in it viewed the world as through a glass. They sewed, cooked, brought children into the world, and reared them in love, honor, and dear indulgence. The boys went forth and the girls stayed until such good time as they went into homes of their own. Marriage was about the only means of livelihood for a woman, and, failing that, she sank into the role of a dependent. Who doesn't remember the “old maid" aunts—God knows with what store of passion and romance locked in their beshawled breasts!—who “helped raise" the children, and played such important, if subdued, part in the domestic economy? Sweet, patient, long suffering, they crumpled at last like rose

(Continued on Page 46)

--- page 2 ---
42

THE CRY OF THE WOMEN WORKERS

By Swinburne Hale Whatever our masters' choice is, Whether for greed or lust, Always our masters' voices Clang out the great word Must! Always on us the world bears Though we have never our say, Cradled and wrecked in the darkness,— Daring to dream of the day!— On our necks lie the collars, Our eyes are dry with dust; Through us they srind their dollars And fling us back our crust, But what have we for happiness? Dear God, is the balance just?

Cradled and wrecked in the darkness! Too long have we felt the sway That our masters claim by their ancient law,— Let them show us the right of their way! But here is the answer they sive us When we meet them face to face: “If you don't like your work and your wages There are plenty to take your place; Get out and make room for the others— It's easy enough to go!" They talk as if we were the choosers— But the working women know!

Cradled and wrecked in the darkness Dreaming the light to come! Too long have we dreamt in silence, Too long have our lips been dumb! Not ours are the laws that bind us To ends we know not of, Not ours the years behind us That shackled us for love, Not ours our masters' chivalry For which our blood is paid; But ours to break the bondage Their sovereign wills have made! And till they set us with them And bring the new day in, And give us power to help them To purge the ancient sin, Oh, let us stand together, For the fight is still to win! —The Woman Voter.

THE SITUATION IN

MARYLAND

Great Progress Reported Since Last Session of Legislature (1910)—Members of Present General Assembly Willing to Weigh Proposed Statewide Suffrage Bill on Merits

During the past two years, public sentiment in Maryland has undergone a very radical change with regard to the woman suffrage movement. The victories in Washington and Cali fornia have made their mark here, and people have begun to realize that woman suffrage is an admitted fact in some of our own States. The success of the suffrage movement elsewhere has also done its part towards convincing Maryland people that woman suffrage is bound to come in the end, and especially in the ranks of the suffragists themselves this encouragement has been a stimulus for renewed activity.

At the last session of the Legislature two years ago, most of the Delegates had never even heard of votes for women. This year they all realize that woman suffrage is one of the great questions which they must face. Most of the Delegates have been personally interviewed, and all of them have received quantities of literature and letters on the subject. Some of the most ardent suffragists in the State are members of the General Assembly, and Mr. Trippe, the Speaker of the House, appointed Mr. Thomas G. Campbell, of Baltimore County, the sponsor of the Woman Suffrage Bill, a member of the Committee on Amendments to the Constitution, in order to make sure of having the bill properly handled by the Committee.

We have already been assured that the bill would be reported out of Committee, and the date of the hearing before the Committee has been fixed for Feb. 13, at 2 P. M. It is an admitted fact that mever before have the people of Maryland shown so much discrimination in selecting their Representatives in the Legislature as they did at the last election, and the high character of the men who represent the people this year insures fair treatment to the suffrage bill.

An indication of the general inter est felt in the subject may be found in the fact that the Speaker of the House permitted the suffragists the use of the Hall of Representatives for a suffrage meeting on Tuesday evenins,. Jan. 30. Delegate Campbell presided, and Miss Julia R. Rogers of Baltimore and Mr. Max Fastman of New York were the speakers. The meeting was a tremendous success Every

THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL, FEBRUARY 10, 1912

Mrs. Ells Maddox Funck, President Maryland State Suffrage Asso- Mrs. Donald R. Hooker and baby. She is President Just Government League of Maryland Mrs. Frank F. Ramey distributing suffrage literature at Maryland Pure Food Exhibit.

seat was occupied, and even the salleries were overflowing. The Delegates and Senators turned out in full force, and much sympathy for the cause was evidenced. It must at least be admitted that the Delegates are approaching the subject with open minds, and that they have an honest desire to decide fairly the merits of the cause.

The meeting in the House of Representatives was susgested by one of the Delegates, and the ready acquiescence of the Speaker to the presence of the suffragists might perhaps indicate that the plan could easily be carried out in other States. WHERE SUFFRAGISTS AND LEGISLATORS MEET

Attractive Housekeeping Headquarters at State Capital Visited by Many Delegates—Gov. and Mrs. Goldsborough to Attend Reception

Before the meeting of the General Assembly this winter, it was decided

by a joint committee composed of Delegates from the four suffrage organizations in Maryland that it would be expedient to open headquarters in Annapolis. The purpose was to afford a comfortable place of residence for suffragists from various parts of the State, where they could come and stay in order to interview their own Delegates. Accordingly, an eight-room apartment in the Claude Apartment House was ensaged, and Mrs. Reba T. Foster and her little daughter took up residence there. The permanent assistants in the Headquarters are a nurse, cook, and housemaid. Bvery Wednesday afternoon, from three until seven o'clock, a reception is held at Headquarters, and foremost amons the guests who have accepted the invitations to the receptions are Governor and Mrs. Goldsborough.

Many small suffrage meetings have been held at the Headquarters, and the people of Annapolis, as well as the Delegates to the General Assembly, have indicated a deep interest in the work. At one of the meetings about 50 of the Delegates were present. Every Saturday night suffrage meetings for women only are held there, and “The Relation of Woman Suffrage to Morality" is the topic for that evening. Small informal dinners have been arranged in order to make it possible to talk over the suffrage question under pleasant circumstances. One more ambitious affair was arransed for Wednesday, the 31st, at Carvel Hall, when all the members of the Committee on Constitutional Amendments were invited to dine with the suffragists.

All in all, the plan of having housekeeping Headquarters at the capital seems to be a very wise one, as it enables the suffragists to come and bring their families, and talk without inconvenience to the members of the Assembly.

ALL LEAGUES UNITE ON ONE BILl

One of the plessant things in the Maryland suffrage campaign this year is that all five of the State Suffrage Leagues have united in support of one bill. This bill provides simply for “equal suffrage," and is ordinarily defined as “the State-wide universal suffrage bill."

Circulars have been published sivmsg on one side the names of the Delesates from the various districts, and on the other detailed information as to how the suffragists can help to pass the bill. They are asked to write or preferably to telegraph their Delegates of their wishes, and to be present at the hearing before the committee. These circulars have been given a very wide distribution among the suffrage forces. Copies can be had by applying to any one of the Suffrage Leagues in Maryland. They are practical and useful, and have already proved their value in this State.

WAR CHEST FILLING

Almost $10,000 Raised Since Fall— Maryland's “Suffrage Chorus"

The Just Government League decided early in the autumn that matters had advanced far enough to permit of charging an admission fee to the suffrage meetings. Tickets for the vari ous meetings have ranged in price from $1.00 to 25 cents. Four meetings have so far been held, and the total receipts, including subscriptions pledged at these meetings, amounted to nearly $10,000. At the last meeting, held on Feb. 1, at which Dr. Stanton Coit of London was the speaker. $5,139.40 was realized. This is good evidence of growing interest in the cause.

In Maryland, as elsewhere, the suftragists feel that the greatest hope for the success of the movement lies in the rural districts of the State. Al ready six active and effcient county Leagues have been organized under the direction of the Just Government League: The Just Government League of Allegany County, Mrs. Merwin Mc- Kais, president; The Just Government League of Frederick County, under the direction of a board of twelve governors, as follows: Mrs. Arthur D. Willard, Miss Anna Belle Lloyd, Miss Mollie Kemp, Mrs. C. B. Trail, Miss Grace D. Ely, Mrs. John K. White, Mrs. Elizabeth McDannel, Miss Mary C. Ott, Mrs. D. H. Ramsbergh, Mrs. Sarah O. West, Miss Florence Trail, and Miss Bertha Trail. Treasurer, Mrs. Harry Haller; recording secretary, Miss B. Frances Hancock; corresponding secretary, Miss M. Z. sitford. The Just Government Leasue of Caroline County, under the direction of a board of twelve governors, as follows: Mrs. E. T. Tubbs, Mrs. H. E. Ramsdell, Mrs. H. A. Roe, Mrs. George R. Spirvin, Mrs. Theophilus Smith, Mrs. William Siden, Mrs. N. A. Ward,

Mrs. Clifford Brown, Mrs. T. P. Fisher, Mrs. W. A. Stewart, Wrs. Josephine Downes, Miss May Fisher. mer Deen; treasurer, Miss Annie M. Lewis; dramatic committee, Mrs. Emil Pearce. The Just Government League of Howard County, Mrs. B. J. Byrne, president; The Just Government League of Salisbury, Mrs. Nevine Collier, president, and The Just Government League of Laurel, Mrs. LePage Cronmiller, president.

Owing to the fact that the number of representatives returned from Baltimore City is wholly disproportionate to the number of inhabitants, the county work is especially important in this State. The total population of Baltimore City is about equal to the total population in all of the counties put together, but Baltimore City elects only 24 representatives and four senators, while the counties elect 53 Delegates and 23 senators. Fortunately, there is much less opposition to suffrage in the counties than in Baltimore City, owing to the fact that

there is less corruption in politics in the counties, and the liquor interests are less strongly intrenched there. The ease with which energetic suffrage organizaticns have developed in the counties augurs well for the future.

STATE EQUAL FRANCHISE LEAGUE OF MARYLAND

What Mrs. Ellicott's Forces Are Doing—State-Wide Organization Composed of Eight County Leagues

Just about a year ago—Feb. 3, 1911 —the State Equal Franchise League of Maryland was christened and launched on a career of great activity and usefulness. During the very short time it has been in existence eight leagues have become affiliated with it —The Bqual Suffrage League of Baltimore, the Woman Suffrage Association of Montgemery County, the Just Franchise League of Talbot County, the Political Equality League of Baltimore, the Junior Suffrage League of Walbrook, the Junior Suffrage Club of Bryn Mawr School, the Equal Franchise League of Thurmont, the Equal Franchise League of Emmetsburs.

The Equal Suffrage League of Baltimore While the League has worked this season chiefly for the interests of a municipal bill for tax-paying women of Baltimore, its energy has also gone out in many other directions. All of the large organizations and most of the ministers in the city have been written to and asked for a hearing—a public hearing or a private interview—and in many cases the League has received not only permission but a cordial invitation.

Very encouraging also are the sults of the Thursday afternoon meeting held at League Headquarters, 817

What Others Are Doing

NE Maryland womas has O twice earned $8 in commissions for getting subscribers to The Journal. Bach time she has sent the $8 back to the Journal to pay for s2 new trial subscriptions. Those who want to help The Journal can follow this Maryland woman's example and thereby send in 64 new subscribers. There are many ways of helping if amea hense is in ahe

one's heart is in the work. AVE you ever thought of paying a competent woman of good presence for canvassing for Votes for Women? A test has recently been made and has worked well. For a period of 20 weeks a woman was hired to call on the enrolled suffragists of several local leagues who were not subscribers to The Woman's Journal. The purpose of her call was to ask them to subscribe. In nine cases out of ten she was able to get a subscription every time she found a woman at home. When she found a woman keenly interested in suffrage and apparently able to further the cause financially she asked her for a contribution for the work. She explained that, generally speaking, when people know the meaning of equal suffrage they are suffragists: that there is therefore great need for educational work; and that in carrying on educational work money is needed. Most people are keenly interested in the educational side of equal suffrage and literally thousands of people who are willing and waiting to help have never been approached with a request to help. When, therefore, a sensible woman calls on them quietly, explains her mission, perhaps explains the cause a little, she often gets a check and usually it is for not less than $5.

HE only disadvantage to this work is that it is difficult to find people at home. It certainly is a plan worth trying, however, even if it means a salary to the woman who carries it out. Of course, a woman could use all of her time in this work or part of her time in it, but if it is done systematically by a woman of discretion among enrolled suffragists there is the possibility of raising a splendid fund for local work. It would be possible to pay the salary of the canvasser out of the commissions for getting Journal subscriptions if vigorous, well-directed work were done by a woman in co-operation with a league in getting subscriptions.

OR further particulars and F suggestions on this phase of work address the office of The Woman's Journal.

HROUGH the interest of Mrs. Lewis Johnson, wife of Professor Johnson, of Harvard University, it has been arranged to have The Woman's Journal on sale at the Harvard Co-operative Society.. The President of the Harvard Men's League, Mr. Allen S. Olmsted, was instrumental in having the following notice inserted in the Harvard Crimson of lanuary 16:

ing en su for pas ing wh col Le ber thv in

“WOMAN . SUFFRAGE LEAGUE.—The Woman's Journal, the official organ of the National Woman Suffrage Association, will be on sale hereafter at the Co-operative." As this notice appears just before The 1915 Baseball Management Competition it unreceived due atten-

--- page 3 ---
Weren't TheyDelicious? Educator Wafers, buttered as you would butter bread. Of coune you've tried them. But I bake another Educator Cracker, which 'm sure you'll enioy just as much. t has that rich, sweet, nut-like flavor peculiar to all EDUCATOR CRACKERS

N. Charles street, Baltimore. It is a great satisfaction to feel that one may drop in at Headquarters any Thursday, hear a sood speaker, and indulge in an informal talk while sipping a cup of tea. Many converts have been made by these little satherings. Antis will often come when they would not go to a large meeting. Of course, there are some who will never be converted. With regard to these it is perhaps best to follow Bernard Shaw's advice, just take them out in the back yard and bury them.

Woman Suffrage Association of Mont. gomery County

Montgomery County occupies a unique position in relation to the woman suffrage movement, for in that county, in 1889, among the Friends at Sandy Spring, the Maryland Woman's Suffragse Association was formed, the first suffrage society south of the Mason and Dixon line under the present national suffrage organization. A number of its “charter members" had for years been members of the National directly, and until 1894 there was no other suffrrage club of any kind in the State, all the adherents of the cause that could be reached at that time, wherever located, belonging to this State Woman's Suffrage Association.

Iin 1894 the Baltimore City Club was organized, an auxillary to the State Woman's Suffrage Association, and in 1897, under a revised constitution, the residents of Montgomery —who had practically constituted the State organization until the Baltimore City Club began in 1894—established the Montgomery County Woman's Suffrage Association, also auxiliary to the State Association. This was, of course, a mere formality, to comply with the constitution, as the membership of the individuals composing the Montgomery Association dated. from the organization of the Maryland Woman's Suffrage Association in 1889.

Just Franchise League of Talbot County This League has been concentrating its work in the last few months endeavoring to enlist influence and support for its bill, which is now before the Legislature. The bill, if passed, will enfranchise the tax-paying women of Talbot County, of whom there are 115 white and 8 colored.

By means of propaganda the League has greatly increased its membership, and in addition to other activities, publishes “Sufrrage Columns" in three weekly papers.

THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL, FEBRUARY 10, 1912

Dr. Howard A. Kelley, President of the Maryland Men's Equal Suffrage League Mrs. W. M. Ellicott, President Equal Franchise League Dr. Florence Sabin, active member Just Government League . $ f f Suffrage Headquarters of the Just Government League . ————

Political Equality League of Baltimore County This League, organized in' the spring of 1911, covers the whole of the largest county in Maryland, and has committees working in every section. Roland Park is the centre of activity, being the home of the president and most of the members of the executive committee.

After the meeting of the National Suffrage Association in Louisville last autumn, it was unanimously voted to affiliate with the State Equal Franchise League. As the Lesislature is now in session at Annapolis, all the Delegates and Senators were written to or visited, with most encouraging results. The League is proud of the fact that a Delegate from Baltimore County—Mr. Thomas G. Campbell— introduced the bill for State-wide suf-

frage in the Legislature the other day, the fate of which is awaited with widespread interest. The League has increased its membership at the numerous parlor meetings held this season. These meetings have been found the most effective and practical means of obtaining new members.

SUFFRAGE MASS MEETING

To indicate the solidarity in the suffrage forces, the Maryland Woman Suffrage Association, the State Equal Franchise League, the Men's League for Woman Suffrage of Maryland, and the College Equal Suffrage League of Maryland, a mass meeting has been arranged for tomorrow afternoon, Feb. 11, at 3 P, M. It is to be held at the Maryland Theatre, one of the largest downtown theatres in Baltimore, where Congressman Edward H. Taylor from Colorado, and his wife, will speak on “The Results of Woman Suffrage." This will be probably one of the greatest suffrage meotings held in Baltimore,

IN MARYLAND Do women vote in Maryland? Certainly they do—in several places. There may be many Marylanders who are not aware of this, but the interesting fact remains.

In Annapolis, the State capital, for instance, women may vote on certain bond issues of the city, a right which they always erxercise. Maryland anti-suffragists, who declare that the majority of women are so indifferent that they would not vote even if they were permitted, can thus find a refutation of their argument right within the boundaries of their own State. Another privilege which Annapolis grants its women citizens is service on the School Board. It is provided by law that the Board of District

School Trustees for the school district of Annapolis “shall always" be composed of three men and three women, and all vacancies in this board shall be filled by the Board of County School Commissioners of Anne Arundel County, but a “woman shall always succeed a woman and a man succeed a man."

Apparently the women of West Annapolis have even greater rights than their sisters of Annapolis. Judsging from the wording of an Act of the Maryland Assembly—"That the citizens . .. shall elect," etc. ... and from the fact that a woman is a citizen, the women of this place have a right to vote in municipal elections. And, again, certain women of “Anmne Arundel on Bay" apparently have a right to vote under an Act which provides that “all persons who own any interest in real estate in said town, of the age of 21 years and upwards, shall elect by ballot . .. commissioners." The situation in "“Still Pond" is even more thrilling. There the women have an express right to vote, the Act providing “That the legal voters of Still Pond, females included, who pay taxes and who have resided within its corporate limits six months, of the age of 21 years and upwards, shall elect by ballot on the first Saturday in May, 1908, three commissioners, all of whom shall be qualified voters of said town elections, and above 31 years of age,"

Mrs. Ellicott Explains Reasons fo Baltimore and Easton Bills

All suffragists are one at heart. The injustice of sex differentiation in a government which affects the interests of all human beings is vitalizing a vast body of potentially admirable citizens. But a sense of injustice, enthusiasm, nay, even intelligence and high standards, cannot at once sive experience and practical knowledse. The West, with American initiative, has created its own methods and won its own battles.

Englishwomen, already named poll scians for generations, are handlins their campaign with a practical ability which wins admiration, even if it

sometimes provokes criticism. East and West and North are thus working out their own salvation. So must the Scuth. While grateful and appreciative of advice and experience, we Southern women must study local conditions—the temperament of our people, and the character of our Legislatures, before we can hope to get the practical results which the importance of the cause justifies. A State-wide universal bill for suffrage and an ideal recognition of the rights of every human being sound fine, and they are fine.

“C'est magnifique, mais ce n'est pas la guerre." In fact, the whole East coast might well consider why it is that fifty years of intelligent agitation have failed to win any practical legislative resultt. We should study the reasons why the average legislator listens, reads, often agrees, and then votes overwhelmingly against suffrage. It is not always sex opposition, nor ignorance, since suffrage arguments are in everyone's hands; and it is not always political opposition of the leaders; but, in the South at least, there are other reasons, which must be reckoned with, whether justifiable or not. The sudden enfranchisement of a nation of illiterate voters by the enactment of the fifteenth amendment created a profound instinct against another unlimited extension of the franchise. We may or may not agree with this feeling, but it exists to such an

43

extent that there is a srowing party in every Southern State to establish some fair qualification test for men as well as women. When to this sentiment is added a strong State-rights, local representation feeling, which makes each county and town tenaclous of its special rights and privileges, the difficulty of concentrating legislative sentiment upon an immediate and comprehensive settlement of this question adds many complications.

At this point the Southern chivalric sentiment about women is a still further opposing factor. Many men really believe that a participation in national, State, and municipal politics would injure their ideal of womanhood, although the injury to the women themselves is disproved in every State and country where they are voters.

These are only some of the many local conditions which Southern women may study to advantage in a practical legislative campaign, and which have induced the State Equal Franchise League of Maryland to introduce two supplementary bills into the Lesislature, to grant municipal suffrage to taxpaying women in Baltimore and Easton.

1f the State-wide universal bill should pass, these bills will be unnecessary, but, in the event of its failure, the promoters of these modest bills offer the practical possibility for Southern men to grant some form of franchise to women.

To States where universal suffrage prevails or is impending, this action may seem conservative to the last degree; but it is earnestly believed that, once the sex barrier is removed, and the concrete realization of municipal housekeeping given to at least those women whose taxes go to the support of the city in which they live, it will not be long before the solid advantages of woman suffrage are obvious, and will serve as the key to the situation when the next Legislature meets. As these lines go to the press, Maryland legislators have before them the bill to grant a State-wide universal vote to women; but if they will not pass it, they still can grant a simple, practical solution which could offend mo conservative sentiment, but which would be an immediate benefit to the cities involved, and which would recognize that women were citizens. Elizabeth King Ellicott.

President State Equal Franchise League of Maryland.

MARYLAND SUPPLEMENT TO THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL

In Maryland, as elsewhere, the most difficult part of the suffrage work is to keep properly in touch with the suffrage workers. It has been decided, after much thought, that the only way in which this difficulty can be successfully overcome is to have a Maryland Supplement to The Woman's Journal, to be published weekly by The Journal and to be forwarded weekly to all Maryland subscribers with a copy of The Journal. This Supplement could contain all local nmews and detailed directions for the workers, as well as local advertisements, which would help cover the cost of printing, etc. It is sincerely hoped that this project can be put through at an early date, and that other States will take part in the plan and publish their own Supplement as well, thereby adding largely to the value and circulation of The Journal.

A VALENTINE

The members of the Maryland Lesislature are receiving a Votes for Women Valentine sent out by the Just Government League. It bears a large red heart labeled “Votes for Women," and a little Cupid with bow and arrow aime? ot it. The legend runs: “Cupid with his silver dart Has secured this longed-for heart, So I send it you with mine; will you have it, Valentine?"

Miss Sylvia Pankhurst lectured in Milwaukee on Feb. 2; in Fargo, North Dakota, Feb. 3 and 4; in Madison, Wis., Feb. 7, and Appleton, Wis., Feb. s. she will speak in Detroit, Mich., March 3; Toronto, March 4, and Toledo, O., March 6.

--- page 4 ---
44

THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL

LUCY STONE and HENRY B. BLACKWELL A Weekly Newspaper Devoted to Winning Equal Rights and especially to Winning Equal Suffrage for Women. E ditor MISS ALICE STONE BLACKWELL MONADNOCK STREET, DORCHESTER, MASS Contributing Editors MIS MARY JOHNSTON MRS. IDA H. HARPER MISS ELLIS MEREDITH REV. CAROLINE BARTLETT CRANE MRS. MABEL CRAFT DEERING

Office - 585 Boylston Street, Boston, Mass. Telephone, Back Bay 4717 NEW YORK office: National Suffrage Headquarters, 508 Fifth Ave. NATIONAL AMERICAN WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION

505 Fifth Avenue, New York City. ANNA HOWARD SHAW, President, Moylan, Pa. JANE ADDAMS, 1st Vice-President, Hull House, Chicago, Ills. SOPHONISBA P. BRECKINRIDGE, 2nd Vice-President, Green Hall, University of Chicago, 1lls. MARY WARE DENNETT, Corresponding Secretary. 505 Fifth Avenue, New York. SUSAN W. FITZGERALD, Secretary, 585 Boyliston Street, Boston, Mass. JESSIE ASHLEY, Treasurer, 505 Firth Avenue, New York. HARRIET BURTON LAIDLAW, 2nd Auditor, 6 East 06th Street, New York. ALICE STONE BLACKWELL, Editor of “The Woman's Journa Monadnock Street, Dorchester., Mass SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1912

Entered at the post-office, Boston, Massachusens, as second class mauer SUBSCRIPTION One Year $1.00 Six Months . Four Months on Trial . .25 Single Copies . . .05 Canadian or Foreign: One Year . 1.50 On sale at Brentano's, New York City; also on news-stands in Ne York, Boston and elsewhere. RECELPT of payment must not be expected to show on address label under two weeks from date received. Instructions for RENEWAL. DISCONTINUANCE or CHANGE OF ADDRESS should be sent two efore the date they are to go into effect. Both old and new drees must always be given. e od e addressed to the ofce of The Woman's Journal, 585 Boylston Street, Boston, Mass. Registered letters or express company's money orders may be sent at our risk. Money sent ee wll be at the risk of the sender. postoice orders should be made payable to The Woman's Journal. Avert tes will be sent upon application to advertising manager. York Advertising Representative, M. D. Bryant & Co., Inc., 200 Firth Avenue, New York City. Business Manager, AGNES E. RYAN.

ROOSEVELT ON SUFFRAGE

It was said of a book written by a certain philosopher that a fighting atheist might walk off with one-half of its argument and a devout Christian with the other half. A fighting “Anti" might walk off with part of Theodore Roosevelt's latest article on the woman question, and a devout suffrasist with another part. Col. Roosevelt says:

“If the woman suffrage movement were to be judged only by those advocates of it who discredit themselves and their sex by disorderly antics in public, and who assail the foundations of private and public morality in their endeavor, not to raise the sense of moral duty in man, but to lower the sense of moral duty in woman, I should certainly oppose the movement. But do not believe these undesirable apostles are in any way to be accepted as exponents of the cause, and I call attention to the fact that they are prominent, not in the resion where woman suffrage does exist, but in regions where it does not exist.

“I pin my faith to woman suffrasists of the type of the late Julla Ward Howe. Julla Ward Howe was one of the foremost citizens of this Republic; she rendered service to the people such as few men in any seneration render; and yet she did. nrst of all, her full duty in the intimate home relations that must ever take precedence of all other relations. There was never a better wife or mother; her children rose up to call her blessed, and the commonwealth sheuld call her blessed for the children she bore and reared, for the character she transmitted to them, and the training she gsave them in her household. We are fortunate in being able to point to such a woman as exemplifying all that we mean when we insist that the good woman's primary duties must be those of the home and the family, those of wife and mother; but that the full performance of these duties may be helped and not hindered if she also possesses a sense of duty to the public, and the power and desire to perform this duty.

“In our Western States where the suffrage has been given to women I am unable to see that any sreat difference has been caused, as compared with neighboring States of similar social and industrial conditions where women have not the suffrage. There has been no very marked change in general political conditions, nor in the social and industrial position of woman. Yet what slight changes have occurred have been for the better, and not the worse. Moreover, I must say that, being a natural-born democrat, 1 do like to associate with people who possess every right that I possess. In those Western States it is a real pleasure to meet women, thoroughly womanly women, who do every duty that any woman can do, and who also are not only im fact but in theory on a level of full equality with men. I fail to see that these women are any less efficient in their households, or show any falling off in the sense of duty; I think the contrary is the case; and so far as their influence has affected political life at all it has affected it for good. I do not see much difference between Denver and the big cities of the East in those very matters where we would expect the influence of women's voting to count most; yet, after all, it is the women of Denver who have stood most stoutly behind Judge Lindsey. When I1 passed through Seattle last sprins, it had just finished an election in which a most needed bit of political house-cleaning had been performed; and the votes of the women had been a potent factor in securing decent government. The same thing was notably true in the Los Angeles election the other day. A very good citizen of Los Angeles, in a position fitting him to pass judgment, writes. me as follows of this contest: 'By the way,

— NAL Colone1 sedto bedead agastwom's urae, md ha althoush I voted for it and wrote for it—because it seemed to me Yet, sine ————risht and and a necessary part of sincere 1 dreaded consequences. Of course one swallow doesn't suffrase LL make a summer, but up to date in this contest the women have that ao conducted themselves in a way to excite the liveliest admiration. only 10 They are setting the men a much-needed example of rapid, thor- of our 48 ough work, with no foolish scrapping—dignified, conscientious, State to and effective... the votes “I believe in the movement for woman suffrage, and believe cast on that it will ultimately justify itself." ever bee

Col. Roosevelt probably underestimates the amount of sood that equal suffrage has done in the enfranchised States. He certainly does, if any weight is to be given to the census of ministers in those States which Mrs. Howe took, and a summary of which she published just before her death. She addressed to the ministers of four denominations a circular letter asking whether the results of equal suffrage were gsood or bad. Out of 624 replies received, 62 were unfavorable, 46 on the fence, and 516 in favor. Ministers living and working in those States can judge of the good or bad effects better than a transient tourist. A. S. B.

SUFFRAGE AND DIGNITY

Col. Roosevelt says: “The supreme importance and high position of the woman of the type of Julia Ward Howe cannot be materially increased by the possession of the ballot. 1 am glad that the good, wise, and brave mother should have the ballot. I am especially glad if its possession will add to the high dignity of her position in the eyes of men. But I cannot conceive of any man's now failing to hold such a mether as more worthy of respect than any man, or than any other woman."

The Colonel must have been singularly fortunate in his male acquaintances if he has never met any men with whom such was not the case. Mrs. Howe did not at all agree with him in thinking that the ballot could add nothing to a mother's dignity. In an article in The Outlock of April 3, 1909, which has been reprinted by the suffragists as a tract, Mrs. Howe named twelve definite benefits that she said had been positively proved to result from equal suffrage. The first in the list was this: “It gives women a position of increased dignity and influence." Mrs. Howe backed this up with testimony from well-known men and women. Mrs. Sarah Platt Decker says: “Under woman suffrage there is a much more chivalrous devotion and respect on the part of men, who look upon their sisters not as playthings or as property, but as equals and fellow citizens."

Mrs. K. A. Sheppard, President of the New Zealand Council of Women, says: "“Since women have become electors, their views have become important and command respect. Men listen to and are influenced by the opinions of women to a far greater degree than was the case formerly. There is no longer heard the contemptuous 'What do women know of such matters? And so out of the sreater civil liberty enjoyed by women has come a perceptible rise in the moral and humanitarian tone of the community. A youns New Zealander in his teens no longer regards his mother as belonging to a sex that must be kept within a prescribed sphere. That the lads and young men of a democracy should have their whole conception of the rights of humanity broadened and measured by truer standards is in itself an incalculable benefit."

Dr. Margaret Lons, daughter of ex-Secretary of the Navy John D. Long, has resided for years in Denver. She writes: “It seems impossible to me that any one can live in Colorado long enough to get into touch with the life here, and not realize that women count for more in all the affairs of this State than they do where they have not the power that the suffrase gives. More attention is paid to their wishes, and much sreater weight given to their opinions and judgment." Mrs. Howe might have added the statement of a famous old mother in Israel, Mrs. Zerelda G. Wallace of Indiana, from whom Gen. Lew Wallace said that he drew the portrait of the mother in “Ben Hur." She said:

“To deprive woman of the right to express her thought with authority at the ballot box puts a mark of imbecility upon her at once. So far as the government is concerned, we are held in perpetual tutelage—we are minors always; and while good men will act justly toward women in spite of this, it is an excuse for every bad and foolish man to oppress woman, and for every unfledged boy to make a butt of her." The Rev. Charles F. Dole, author of excellent works on good citizenship, points out that American women's lack of the ballot distinctly strengthens the tendency of immigrant men and boys to look down upon women.

Col. Roosevelt says that he cannot conceive of a good mother being less respected because she has no vote. The Colonel has the reputation of being a good father. Is he quite sure that he and all other good fathers would be just as much respected, not only by their own families but by women-folk at large, if all the women had votes and all the men had none? A. S. B.

“INDIFFERENCE AND OPPOSITION

As set forth in his latest article in The Outlook, Col Roosevelt's position on woman suffrage is progressive in the abstract, but reactionary in the concrete; he believes in woman suffrage, but not until the majority of women vote that they want it. He would like to have a referendum of women on the question in New York and Massachusetts. In case of a light vote, “those mot voting should be held to have voted mo."... “If a majority of the women of a State vote afmrmatively for the suffrase, it is time to give it to them." Neither in New York nor in Massachusetts have the majority of the men ever voted affirmatively upon any constitutional amendment placed before them. If anyone should propese that in New York an amendment, in order to carry, must receive a majority vote of all the men in the State, the suggestion would be received with universal ridicule. Everyone would say that such a measure might as well be entitled “An Act to make it forever impossible to amend the Constitution of New York." Yet it is precisely this impossible condition that Col. Roosevelt proposes to demand of women. In most States, when any set of men want to amend the constitution, they are only required to show that more men fayor the change than oppose it. Two or three years ago, four constitutional amendments were submitted in New York, The vote showed that only about 25 per cent. of the men wanted these

changes, while 75 per cent. were “either indifferent or opposed." Yet, since less than 25 per cent. were actually an the amendments were declared carried. In the last d suffrage in the Massachusetts Legislature, it was that a constitutional amendment nad sometimes carried whe only 10 per cent. of the men in the State voted for it. Not one of our 48 States requires a majority vote of all the men in the State to pass an amendment. A fow requirs a majority of al the votes cast at the election imstead of a majority of a those cast on the amendment. None of these States, it is satla, have ever been able to carry at a general election any amendment whatever, no matter how slight the opposition to it; simply because a majority of the men voting for Governor do not take the trouble to vote even for the most popular amendment.

NE

Provin counts ciation appoin Journ paper news The J news wides in the

Progressive men of every stripe are protesting against those few old-style constitutions which practically count indifference as opposition, thus setting up an almost insuperable barrier to reform. Yet here comes Col. Roosevelt recommending (for women only) a method which out-Herods the worst of them! He has always stood up for an equal standard of morals. On what principle of ethics can he justify imposing infinitely harder terms upon women seeking a change than he would consider fair in the case of any change sought by men?

The Germa Revie Fino nouvel Kind ine ch The pe wifely the B Housel

Mrs. Julia Ward Howe wrote, in The Woman's Journal of an, 23, 1909:

“Opponents say that the ballot should not be granted while the majority of women are ‘either indifferent or opposed. But it is one thing to be indifferent, and quite another to be opposed. Every amendment to the Massachusetts Constitution that has ever been adopted would have been set down as defeated if all the men who were too indifferent to vote on it either way had been counted as voting against it. The antisuffragists invoke majority rule. But the accepted principle of majority rule is that a question should be decided according to the wish of the majority who care enough about it to express a wish. The indifferent do not count. On the suffragse question, the vast majority of those women who care are in favor. This has been demonstrated wherever the matter has been brought to a test. In New York, at the time of the last constitutional convention, the suffragists secured more than 300,000 signatures to their petitions; the anti-suffragists, only 15,000. The woman suffrage petitions presented to the recent constitutional convention in Michigan bore 175,000 signatures. There were no petitions on the other side. In Chicago, a large number of women, headed by Jane Addams, are asking for a municipal woman suffrage clause in the new city charter. One hundred and four organizations, with an agsgregsate membership of more than 100,000 women, have petitioned for it, while only one small organization of women has petitioned against it. In Maine, Iowa, Kansas— in short, in every State where petitions for suffrage and remonstrances against it have been sent to the Legislature, the petitioners have always outnumbered the remonstrants, and have generally out-numbered them fifty or a hundred to one. On the only occasion when the government took an official referendum among women on the subject (in Massachusetts in 1895), the women's yote was in favor of suffrage, twenty-five to one."

Koel sung d telalter

This was the occasion referred to by Col. Roosevelt, when “less than 5 per cent." of all the women in Massachusetts voted for suffrage. Mrs. Howe menticns the fact (which Mr. Roosevelt omits) that less than one-sixth of 1 per cent. voted against it. In 238 of the 322 towns of Massachusetts, not a single woman voted no. Out of every 665 adult women in Massachusetts, only one voted in the negative. Mrs. Howe adds:

“Doubtless it will be said that the nesative vote did not represent all the women who were opposed. This is true. But it showed with absolute accuracy how many of the women opposed to suffrage believed that the right to vote implies the duty to vote. There were just 861 out of a possible 575,000." No others can claim that the ballot would lay a conscientious burden on them. Mrs. Howe says, in conclusion: “It is well known that, with rare exceptions, the ladies who make a specialty of opposing equal suffrage do not use the school ballot. With what consistency, then, can they object to full sufrrage on the ground that it would impose on them ‘an added duty. By actions which speak leuder than words, they every year declare their conviction that the right to vote carries with it no duty or obligation whatever." A. S. B.

RIGHTS AND DUTIES

Much of Col. Roosevelt's article in the Outlook is irrelevant to suffrage. Whether early marri age is desirable for girls or undesirable, whether woman in industry is a transient or a permanent, whether the economic dependence of wives is necessary for the proper fulfilment of their duties as mothers or unnecessary—all these are questions over which people divide according to their views on economics, not according to their views on suffrage.

The doctrine that people ought to think more of their duties than of their rights is perfectly sound; but there are appropriate and inappropriate times to press it. When the Continental army was just marching out to wrest the rights of the Colonies from Great Britain, it would have shown a lack of judgment on the part of Washington's chaplain if he had chosen that time to preach the troops a sermon on the duties of subjects to their king, or even on the text “He that provideth not for his own household is worse than an infidel," setting forth that every man's most fundamental duty was to support his family, and that the acquirement of political rights was of sman importance in comparison. It speaks well for the depth and permanence of mother love that it has not been visibly lessened by having the conservatives hold up maternal duties as an obstacle against unclosing every deor of wider education or opportunity that has been opened to women in the last hundred years.

Colonel Roosevelt says that most of the women of his circle are antis, and reproach him for wishing to “force" suffrage upon them. In so conservative a feminine environment, it is to his credit that he can hold in principle to the early faith which led him to vote for woman suffrage as a member of the Legislature, and to recommend it in his inaugural message as Governor of New York. With votes for women in California and Washington, with Parllamentary suffrage already sranted in Norway and about to be granted in Sweden, it looks as though the Colonel would soon have a chance to see the reform in very general operation; and he will find that mothers love their children just as well as before. A. 8. B.

--- page 5 ---
NEWS FROM 33 STATES

The Woman's Journat last week publisned mews n 23 States and the District of also from two provinces of Car and three foreign countries. Few State Suffrage Associations as yet do what all should do— appoint someone to send The Woman's lournal regularly a letter or newspaper clippings siving the suffrage news from that State. The fact that The Journal is able to gather so much news despite this handicap shows how widespread the suffrage news now is in the general press.

IN THE MAGAZINES

The changing ideals of the modern German woman. American Review of Reviews. New York. February. Finot, Jean. La beaute de la femme nouvelle. La Revue. Paris. Jan. 1. Kincaid, Mary Holland. The feminine charms of the woman militant. The personal attractiveness and housewifely attainments of the leaders in the Equal Suffrage Movement. Good Housekeeping. New York. February. Koebner, Richard. Die Eheauffassung des ausgehenden deutschen Mittelalters. Die Beurteilung der Frau.

y

WORTH FIGHTING FOR?

HAVE you ever run across a case where the law steps between a mother and her children?

Many States have such laws. One of the worst of them dates back to the time of Charles the Second. In Tennessee, right now, in this Year of Our Lord 1912, the statutes say that a father can by will leave an unbom child to somebody other than the mother. Somebody, perhaps, who is not even friendly with the mother. A similar law was until lately on the statute-books of South Carolna.

Laws that, in one form or another, allow a father to deprive a mother of her just rights in the children exist in a majority of the States in the Union.

In thirty-two States the father has a paramount legal right to the child, and the mother only a subordinate and in many cases, if a widow, she may in specific instances have no rights at all.

THE DELINEATOR

has had a draft made to form the basis of a new law which should be made applicable to every State in the Union. It is short, simple, and direct, but it includes the best points of every law bearing on the subject. By this, mothers everywhere share exactly identical rights in the child with the fathers.

How does this hit you? Does it strike you as worth while?

Does it move you to feel like working, hoping, prayins, and even fighting to have this principle embodied in the laws of every State that needs it. If your heart prompts you to do something for the mothers who have suffered for generations under inadequate or unjust laws, get THE DELINEATOR for March and read every word that William Hard has written under the heading

“WITH ALL MY WORLDLY GOODS"

Then do what you can toward interesting your family, your friends, your neighbors, your county, and your State. Get THE DELINEATOR while the impulse is sull fresh. GET IT NOW.

THE BUTTERICK PUBLISHING COMPANY NEW YORK

en ed elt it. an ly

ot ut en he 0." us ell peot. ge ty. ar it

ant unerary esrdws

ies rital ies ent hat to his hat ily, imered an or uncle

cle pon to ich gisovith out uld raas

January. Lageriof, Selma. Woman the savior of the state; her fundamental achievement in her world, and man's nasuccess in his, as the basis of the demand for suffrage. World's Work. New York. February. Sharp, Evelyn. Behind the locked door. Nation. London. Jan. 6. A suffragist's prison experiences. Spencer, Anna Garlin. The day of the spinsterr. Forum. New York. February.

Wilkinson, Marguerite, O. B. Education as a preventive of divorce. Craftsman. New York. February. Education of girls so that some career besides marriage is open to them.

Roosevelt, Theodore. Woman's rights and the duties of both men and women. Outlook. New York. Feb. 3. Elizabeth J. Sherwood.

The picture on our front page last week, “The Suffragette Arousing Her Sisters," shows the fine piece of statuary modeled by Ella Buchanan. The suffragist is the central figure; Vanity at the right; Prostitution at Vanity's feet; Conventionality at the left; behind Conventionality, the Wase Earner.

Is This

Culturgeschichte. Leipzis. FORM OF BEQUEST Selma. Woman the savior1 hereby sive and bequeath to the AE ol $ her fundamental achieve- National American Woman Suffrage rworld, and man's half- Associaticn, being incorporated under is, as the basis of the de- the laws of the District of Columbia, sion is us uffrage. World's Work. the sum of $......principal to any and February. and interest to be applied by such aselyn. Behind the locked sociation for the support and promoom. London. Jan. 6. A tion of the cause of woman suffrage. wAY 10 HeLP prison experiences.

NOTED SPEAKERS AT CHI- CAGO MEETING

iss Jane Addams Heads Committee in Charge of Suffrage Meeting on the Value of the Ballot to Women in City, County, State and Nation

Invitations for a suffrage meeting at the residence of Mr. and Mrs. Cyrus Hall McCormick of Chicago have been issued for Friday evening, February 9, at 8 o'clock. The speakers will be Mrs. Forbes-Robertson Hale, Miss Grace Abbott, Mr. Sherman C. Kinssley, Miss Julia C. Lathrop, Mrs. Florence Kelley. They will speak on the value of the vote to women in the city, county, State and nation. The committee in charge includes Miss Jane Addams, Mrs. Arthur T. Aldis, Mrs. Frederick C. Bartlett, Mrs. Tiffany Blake, Mrs. Joseph T. Bowen, Mrs. Chatfield- Taylor, Mrs. Kellogg Fairbank, Mrs. Charles H. Hamill and Mrs. Cyrus Hall McCormick.

BALTIMORE AND ITS VICE PROBLEM

Three years ago, when the wave of indignation against the iniquities of the white-slave traffic swept across the country, resulting in the passage of adequate protective laws in thirty States, including Maryland, there were many people living in Baltimore who said, “Surely there is no whiteslave traffic here!"

Those who were instrumental in having a white-slave law passed, however, and the officials whose duties made them familiar with the facts, knew better. Indeed, ever since the passage of the law in Maryland, and the enactment of the Federal White Slave Traffic Law by Congress, there has been a constant procession of such cases in the courts, proving the need of such laws.

The effect of this activity of the officials, urged on by associations interested in the suppression of the traffic in women, together with the energy of the Federal Government, is making the business of the white-slave trader more hazardous and less profitable. Yet it goes on. In searching for the reason of this, the conclusion is soon reached that the efforts for the suppression of the traffic in women cannot meet with full success as long as the house of vice exists and districts of a city are set apart for this purpose.

In the year 1910 there were 259 houses of this character on the police records in Baltimore, and in 1911 there were 296, an apparent increase of 37. Competent investigators believe that there are in all about 400 such houses here. There is an average of 4.45 inmates in each house, so that there are nearly 1,400 girls in these places in Baltimore, given up to lives of shame. According to the report of the Chicaso Vice Commission, women do not remain in these houses more than an average of seven years, which means that 200 youns sgirls must enter this life every year in order to keep up the supply.

These houses are clustered in groups, extending in the form of a broken shain for two miles through the center of the city, very near the main thoroughfares. There are also numerous hotels and rooming houses employed for vicious purposes.

The method of dealing with social vice by the autherities that has been in force in Baltimore for years, as it is in many other cities, is as follows Once a year, usually in May, the keepers of houses of vice are brought into the Criminal Court by the sheriff, a confession of guilt is obtained from them, and a trifling fine imposed, for which a receipt is given. The keepers are then discharged by the court with the tacit understanding that, if no disorder occurs calling for the interference of the police, they will not be disturbed for another year. The money collected for these fines has

ARE YOU SUBSCRIBING T0 A MASAIINE? 1 s0, order it through our agency. The commission is used for suffrage. We take subscriptions to any and all magazines. Club Rates Furnished. A WAY T0 HELP SUFFRAGE WITHOUT PAYING AN EXTRA CENT Bureau

HYGIENIC CORSETS A full abdomen is an unnatural development; a serious Admirstion handicap to both social and business life. mIt is a woman's duty to look her best. An unusual value at $5.50 and $7.50 HYGIENIC CORSET MFG. C0. F REPRESENTATIVES WANTED—Exclusive territory if taken now

HYGIENIC CORSETS A o ep An unusual value at $5.50 and $7.50 HYGIENC CoRs MFG. C0.

JACOBS' 1912 EUROPEAN TOURS An Ideal Summer Vacation would be our five weeks' COACHING TOUR OF THE BRITIS'I ISLES, adding the Continent if desired. Prospectus gives full particulars. Address C. W. JACOBS, Drawer "J," Rock Valley, Ia. THE Yellow Ribbon Speaker Compiled by Anna H. Shaw, Alice Stone Blackwell and Lucy E. Anthony. A book of woman suffrage readings and recitations.

Price, 50 cents. er from The Woman's Jour

been divided among the free dispensaries of the city. It will be seen at once that this method is in fact a system of license, and cannot be said to discourage the keeping of such places, but, on the contrary, must tend to increase the evil,

Last spring, the Society for the Suppression of Vice, which acts as the local representative of the National Vigilance Committee, had a hearing before the judges of the Supreme Bench, and made an earnest appeal for the closing of all public houses of vice. The judges said they would take the matter into consideration, and after five months made an announcement that they favored the continuance of the main features of the system for the present, with restrictions as to the sale of liquor and the prohibition of advertising. “Study has convinced the court," they say, “that the public is as yet shamefully ignorant as to the harm caused by what is called the 'secial evil. ... As soon as education and reflection secure a better appreciation of the whole subject, further advances can be made." The judges were asked that the crime of keeping a house of vice be treated like any other misdemeanor, but their reply is not hopeful. At a later hearing a strong argument was presented to the judges, urging that the only wise and effective method of dealing with these houses is to close them. Under Maryland law such a proceeding may be easily carried out, since all the evidence necessary to convict for a keeper is “common knowledge" of the presence of the house.

Following this appeal, an astounding set of “Regulations" for the police was issued by the Board of Police Commissioners, dated Dec. 11, 1911, and distributed to the force. They ordered that no keeper should conduct more than one house, nor advertise, nor let the inmates show themselves at windows, nor allow unruly conduct, nor the sale of liquor in the house, nor the robbery of visitors, nor “unnatural practices,' and must furnish the marshal of police with a photograph of each inmate and “sitter." The regulations conclude with one which embodies the most objectionable feature of European regulation of vice, the medical examination of inmates and the furnishing of a certificate of freedom from disease from a “reputable practising physician."

Here is a bold attempt to force upon Baltimore a system that has been proven, by the most incontrovertible evidence abroad, to be as ineffective

45

HALLS T0 LET

Opposite Norway Street Three beautiful halls with rooms connected. Especially suited for lodge rooms, concerts, dances, school purposes, meetings, recitals. etc. Three studios. Also a ban quet hall. Apply on premises or to M. H. GULESIAN St. James Theatre, 239 Huntington Avenue, Boston

SuffrageValentines A Yellow Rose which unfolding reveals its secret petal by petal, until at the heart is found, “Votes for Women." Price .20...... postpaid .22 Per doz. 2,00..... postpaid 2.43 Two Kinds of Picture Card Valentines Attractively designed, each with a droll little rhyme. Price .07....... postpaid .08 Per doz. .75....... postpaid .78

in preventing the spreading of social disease as it is immoral in principle. Its chief result, if enforced, would be to increase immorality, and extend infection through the false assurance of safety from the danger of contracting disease. Slowly the people are becoming aroused to the iniquity of the present of toleration and supervision, e Sigrid A. Jomson —: GOWN'S :—

Evening Gowns a specialty Style, fit and satisfaction guaranteed 673 Boylston St., Gill Bldg. Tel. B. B. 1471-M scofish Terriers Offered as companions. Not given to fighting or roaming. Best for children's pets.

NEWCASTLE KENNELS Brookline, Mass. The Poetry and Philosophy of Tennyson Six Lectures by EDWARD HOWARD GRIGGS W February 21, 28, March 6, 13, 26. 27, 1912

at eight-fifteen o'clock in JORDAN HALL, BOSTON Price of tickets for the course $2, $3, $4, according to location Single admissions, 50 cents, 75 cents, $1.00 All seats reserved Sale of course tickets opens Saturday. February 17, at 10 o'clock, in Jordan Hall Advance mail orders should be addressed. Lectures, Box Office, Jordan Hall. ston."

--- page 6 ---
46

practised in so many American cities, and as the knowledse extends, there are evidences of indignation that are encouragings. A movement is under way, directed by men and women of the highest standins, who have made a careful study of social conditions for many years, that will not rest unt the public house of vice is a thing of the past, and social vice has been reduced to its lowest terms. O. Edward Janney, M.D. Baltimore, Md.

There is no doubt whatsoever but that the enfranchisement of the women of Maryland would be a great material aid in improving moral conditions throughout the State. Men who are foremost in the fight against the social evil are almost without exception bellevers in woman suffrage, for they realize the practical value of votes for women. Dr. Janney, the. chairman of the National Vigilance Committee, is one of the most ardent suffragists in the State. This faet speaks for itself.

GAGGED AND BOUND (Concluded from Page 41)

and Chicago could never have won their salary increase if they had been forbidden to agitate for it; nor could the Boston School Board have sot its last grant of money from the Legislature. The Board had tried in vain to get it; the efforts of the teachers put it through. This tyrannical and stupid order is merely an extreme example of the whole spirit in which the Board has been treating the teachers—as mere hired “hands" who must be kept down and made to know their place: “Theirs not to make reply, Theirs not to reason why,

and sometimes, as in the case of Miss Griswold, to die. Mr. Brock is reported as saying that he believes this gasging order will be "a great relief to the teachers"!

“IF I WERE A WOMAN" (Concluded from Page 41)

An economic earthquake has shaken the “old home" to pieces. The foundations are crumbled, the walls are spread, and the winds of the world blow through. Today ten millions of women and children are compelled to work that they may live—not alone in the pleasant professions and occupations, but in store, mill, factory, and sweatshop.

Not alone in this regard, but in many others, the home has lost its reudal or antebellum atmosphere. The nation, the State, the municipality— these three have stepped in, assumed practical control of the family in its most intimate relations—and are Over-Parents.

Compulsory education laws tell when children shall go to school, how long they shall remain, and what shall be studied; pure food acts prescribe what may and may not be eaten in the home; building regulations even dictate the character and composition of houses; there are laws that specify the age at which boys and sirls may go to work, also the number of hours of employment for men and women each day, and the conditions under which labor may be carried on; franchise ordinances fix the prices to be paid for such imperative necessities as gas, water, electricity, and street car service; health laws, truancy laws, juvenile courts, parental delinquency laws, laws establishing the age of consent for girls—all assume authorities that were formerly parental; the tariff establishes the price of food, clothing and building materials; municipal ordinances control gambling, liquor traffic, the social evil, and so forth.

How, then, can a woman Iook after her own home and her children except through the law, and how can the law be controlled except through politics? If I were a woman in 1912, these two fundamental things—the real meaning of politics, and conception of government as an Over-Parent—are what I would consider primarily and resolve upon understanding. For a modern woman to say, “I have no place in politics," is as though she said, “In name only will I fulfill the functions of wife, mother, sister, or communal entity."

We have equal suffrage in Colorado, and it is to this that we owe many of the fine, humane laws now on our statute books for the protection of the

—

home and the people within that tories, offices, stores. This oversight ADVER home. And if I were a woman in 1913 must be siven by mothers to the —living in other than an equal suf- places for study and amusement, as frage State—I would send for a list of well as to those for eating and sleepthese Colorado laws. All of them, ing, and to the passageways between Who Me when considered, will be seen to have them all—the city streets. The city is had their inception in the tenderness. the twentieth century home, corre- Are they made in sw es and humanities of motherhood— spondins to the early idea—the house All articles at The La woman's keener perceptivities with with the acres around it that save DRESSH regard to injustices, inequalities, and food, shelter and all the interests of UNDERWEA helplessness. life.

The International Parliamentary Union—a world-wide organization of expert sociologists—has declared that Colorado possesses the most humane, most progressive, most scientific laws for the protection of women and children of any State or country. Had the women accepted the assertion that “politics is a dirty game," this verdict would not have been won, nmor would all these splendid safeguards have been thrown about the home, the youns, the weak, and the helpless.

Judge Lindsey sets forth in detail and at some length the abuses in American politics, and the way in which, if he were a woman, he would study them and their effects. He says in conclusion:

“What could I do? Well, if there was an equal suffrage movement in my State I would join it, and if there was none I would start one. I am not a great believer in the 'silent influence' of which we hear so much. The way to get a thing done is to do it yourself. Exert all possible influence on your husbands and your sons—by all means devote club work to a study of the vital and pressing political problems of the day—but work for equal suffrage."

Every suffragist should read this article. Buy the February Housekeeper at the news stand, or send 15 cents in stamps to Collier and Nast, Publishers, 443 Fourth avenue, New York, and get it.

NATIONAL CHILD LABOR CONFERENCE (Concluded from Page 41)

has spread even across the river, and, with the assistance of the Louisville Association, the New Albany women have organized into a very live Suffrage League.

A few weeks ago, a public debate was held in one of the social centers between the president of the Louisville W. S. A. and a prominent lawyer and all the sympathy of the audience seemed to be with the affirmative side. The editor of The Herald (a paper always ready to declare itself for suffrage), as Commencement speaker at a Girls' High School Commencement on Friday, turned the usual platitudes reserved for such occasions into a stirring suffrage speech.

Last of all, to point to one result already obtained, the School Suffrage bill has passed the House and we are hopeful of its becoming a law in a few weeks. Virginia P. Robinson, President Louisville W. S. A.

TWENTIETH CENTURY HOME (Concluded from Page 41)

The old home included them all, under the constant supervision of the mother quite as much as of the father. The fertile acres around the walls of the house furnished the raw material, industrious parents and children prepared it for use and stored it for future needs; school, if attended at all, was but a few weeks. While this simple life had its weak points, they were not those of today that require juvenile and divorce courts, organized charities and regiments of social workers, for the life up to legal majority was a busy one, continually under mothers' and fathers' guidance.

It is imperative that we revive the old conception of home to solve our problem of parental incompetency and wastefulness of life. We must again christen as home the place where work, study, amusement, as well as eating and sleeping are had, and they must be in an environment controlled again by mothers as well as fathers. There is no true home without both. Today, as before, the buildings are usually supplied by fathers, and should be kept wholesome, physically and morally, by the mothers, as were such rooms in the original homes. We call the work rooms in this century fac-

tories, offices, stores. This oversight must be given by mothers to the places for study and amusement, as well as to those for eating and sleeping, and to the passageways between them all—the city streets. The city is the twentieth century home, corresponding to the early idea—the house with the acres around it that save food, shelter and all the interests of life.

Woman cannot escape responsibility for this twentieth century. home-making, for, by common insistence, the care of children is hers. That the father cannot do it all, the census demonstrates. Natural law takes no excuse from mothers. It continues on its inexorable way, blighting here, cutting off there, until men and women shall learn the lesson paid for in wasted lives—that children need good mothers as well as fathers in all their years of growth. The mother is not released by the Creator from her duty because others place children in factories for long hours, or employ them in morally degrading work, or surround them with the influences of “red-light" neighborhoods and the saloon, or supply them with adulterated food, impure milk, vulgar literature and entertainment; or defile the water supply and the city atmosphere, the streets and neighborhoods. The laws of life and death hold mothers as well as fathers answerable for these conditions.

This responsibility for one's own makes the woman the keeper of all other children as well, for they form the society in which her own must live. Our statistics of unfortunate lives are far below those of the eleven countries where women have shouldered their responsibility for guarding children, and our American mothers' sense of duty is rapidly growins.

THE INALIENABLE

In the course of the development of our American form of government, much has been said of the inalienable rights of men, and “Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Happiness" have come to be considered as the ultimate goal of democracy. This ideal indicates perhaps better than anything else can the fact that women have heretofore been altogether left out of our government, for women would unthinkingly, if they were given voice, declare that the first inalienable right of all creatures is the right of the mother to protect her young. This means the safeguarding of the future, and, beside it, all else falls into vacuity and swift nothingness.

The right of the mother to protect her young; how is this first inalienable right of women insured in our modern civilized form of government? Not only is it not insured, it is altogether swept away and lost, for government has taken to itself the sole right to protect the child, and government is managed solely by men.

Surely in any wise government the mothers should be permitted to protect their children through proper legislation, for it is the duty of the women to care for and bring up the children, and the means to the fulfillment of this duty must not be abridged, or the race will inevitably suffer.

Two Maryland Laws Which indicate the Need of Votes for Women

1. The Age of Consent: It is a criminal offense for a man to seduce a girl under the age of 14 years. It is a misdemeanor for a man to seduce a girl between the ages of 14 and 16 years of age, unless he be under the age of 18, in which case he cannot be prosecuted. At the last session of the Lesgislature, an attempt was made to raise the age of consent to 18 years, but the bill was killed without any explanation whatsoever in the Senate.

2. The Bastardy Law: The mum amount that a father of an illegitimate child in Maryland can be forced to pay towards its support is $30 a year for seven years. The first payment, however, cannot be demanded until the child is one year old. Surely, if the women's point of view had direct representation in the government, laws such as these could be materially improved upon.

ADVERTISEMENTS CLASSIFIED

ADVERTISEMENTS CLASSIFIED

Are they made in sweatshops or under healthful conditions? All articles at The Label Shop have a label denoting a sanitary factory. DRESSES WAISTS PETTICOATS UNDERWEAR KIMONOS STOCKINGS, etc., etc. Call or send for price list. THE LABEL SHOP, 4 West 28th St., New York City. Incorporated by women. Managed by women for women.

ILLINOIS SUFFRAGE ASSO. 38 Fine Arts Blds., Chicage, publishes the following literature “Bridget's Sisters," a suffrage play; per copy...........25c “Why," a two-page leaflet; per thousand...........$2.00 “Shall Men Vote?" leaflet; per thousand.,......... $2.50 Iilinois Chronology, leaflet; per thousand....... $2.50 Mayors of Five States; per Bible on Woman Suffrage; Laws of Illinois; per copy.. 10c “Mr. Lex," in paper covers; Handsome crepe paper, yelllow-bordered suffrage napkins; per thousand.... $4.00 Per hundred...... 50c

PRINTERS

We beg to announce that we are printers of many well known publications, among them "“7he Woman's Journal." If have booklet, a magazine or a book send it along. Open day and night. E. L. GRIMES COMPANY 122 Pearl St., Boston, Mass. — PRIMR o ORANPE Evorywhers Most Popular D 20 cents and this coupon will buy a regular 36c can at grocer's or at 35 Commercial Whf., Boston

INVESTMENTS

INVESTMENTS

Independent women investors are realizing the value of our shares and in consequence we have only a few remaining unsold. We want to have you learn about the BEST income producer, for the longest time of any investment with which you are familiar: our DIXIE PECAN GROVES. PAPER SHELL PECANS ARE BEING USED SO MUCH THAT AT PRESENT THEY ARE BRINGING $1 PER POUND AT THE TREE, WITH THE DEMAND MANY HUNDRED TIMES THE AVALL- ABLE SUPPLY. WE DO NOT FIGURE MORE THAN 35 CENTS PER POUND.

Let us send you our booklet, “A Royal Income from the King of Nuts," so that you may learn something of our investment and what other people know about a safe yet profitable place to put your surplus.

E. W. DENNISON 132 North Grove Street East Orange, N. J.

SOME POINTS IN PRACTICAL EXPERIENCE

The True Value of Petition Work

The True Value of Petition Work

It is often said by suffragists that petition work is useless; that the members of the Legislature 1ook upon a long petition as so much waste paper, or that, worse still, they do not look at it at alll The experience of the suffragists at the last session of the Legislature would seem at first sight to bear this idea out, for it is an actual fact that one member of the General Assembly, who has not come back, spat upon our lons petition two years ago, as it was unrolled in the Hall of Representatives. The suffra-

electio the us The names petitio accord form who candid counte the pe

Und Marga youns a new tion been of si gratis, Sales with the c neck b they s valent of the

A TOUR TO AND THROUGH SWEDEN NORWAY to see THE MIDNIGHT SUN by way of Scotiand and England. TOUR to leave New York, June ist, by the latest built steamship S. S. CAMERONIA. Special attractions in Sweden this year—The Olympic Games and the Singing Festival.

1ne the au gins, for so and it literat vantag img ov sold, would

Communications from intending travelers and information regarding this tour will be promptly also estimates of to all parts of the world if wanted. Write for itineraries. Passenger and Tourist Agency 127 South Third Street Minneapolis, Minn.

LECTURE BUREAU

Next method air me the dis those the sto most a

Wrl. B. FEAKINS Sucoessor 9 (CVIC FORUM LETURE BUREA) REPRESENTS RO MIN E NT P LATFO R M EOPL E 21 West 44th Street -Now York

ANNOUNCEMENTS

The suffrag the ev

Quaker City Office Supply Co. PHILADELPHIA, 39 South 10th St. Circular Letters, Cards, Announcements, Berkshire Typewriter Papers

Quaker City Office Supply Co. PHILADELPHIA, 39 South 10th St. Circular Letters, Cards, Announcements, Berkshire Typewriter Papers

Thos comic stoutly is runi

Send 25 cents and get one dozen sheets of our best carbon paper.

Mrs. Glendo nmual League at 3Jo at 3 P.

LECTURE

This Maryla ditional Funck, Lavinia etc., ar going t tion.

An Inimitable Equal Suffrage Program MAN, WOMAN'S EQUAL" DRAMATIC PORTRAYAL OF SCENES FROM THE SENATE entertainment; full of laughs; especially interesting to men; convert-making. For circulars, terms and dates, address

Gov. told, at Michiga finally women. vinced extend life to

EMILY MONTAGUE BISHOP, Michiga 600 W. 192d St., New York City finally women. vinced ex LAUNDRESS iife fow

LAUNDRESS Swedish woman, expert in fine hand laundry, would like a few private familes' laundry work. Address Box 303, Woman's Journal Office.

The 1 be cong ment u Nothing suffrage ponents oftener and air flimsines

HOUSEWORK.—Armenian of 20, with excellent recommendation from former employer, wants place, preferably in family where he can improve his English. Can read and write but not speak itnuently.Address Olan Shirinian, 57 Market Street, Lynn, Mass. NURSE OR CHAUFFEUR.—Armenian with four years' experience as nurse, seven as chauffeur, and twelve in drug store, wants work in either line. Speaks Englist and French; has first rate references. Ad- Aris Garinian, 28 Kneeland Street, ston.

Miss Study C Good Go next Tue jections Wemen Unduly ference

HOUSE OR STORE.—Armenian teacher, here to take normal course, could not fol. low lectures at Normal School for lack of practice in hearing Enslish, though well Spoken siowly. Wants housework or other Job where he can hear English talked, Excellent reference as to character. Address Bartevian, 253 Shawmut Avenue, n.

Better standing election Woman primary, frage al this resty

gists were much chagrined at this ignominious treatment of their sympathizers, and they decided that, if the members of the General Assembly would not listen to the silent appeal of the signatures, they should hear from them in a way that they would understand.

Morga urer-Gen terview women drop of t try from Russia."

Consequently they set to work to copy the long petition on to a card catalogue, and divided the cards into election districts, and now they have at their command a long list of voters and workers who can be appealed to at election time by suffrage candidates for support in a political campaign. That these lists are a valuable political asset has already been proven, for the suffrage candidates at the last

Mrs. J. cartoonist her hushe ers of the ada, and it to suc ardent ad and they est in th

--- page 7 ---
S T .

olection appealed to the suffrasists for the use of these very lists. The important thing is to set the names of registered voters on the petition, and then to classity them accordins to election districts and inform the signers before election as to who is and who is not a suffrase candidate, and then, when the vote is counted, the candidates will learn of the petition, even if they did isnore it. Our Sales Committee

Under the able management of Miss Margaret Carey, one of Maryland's youngest and most ardent suffragists, a new department of work in connection with the suffrage meetings has been organized this winter. Instead of sgiving suffrage literature away gratis, three or four members of the Sales Committee supply themselves with large willow trays, decorated in the colors and suspended from the neck by ribbons, and from these trays they sell literature, badges, pennants, valentines and other novelties, at all of the suffrage meetings.

The Committee goes about amons the audience before the meeting begins, just when the people are looking for something to occupy their time, and it is surprising to see how much literature can be disposed of to advantage in this way. At the last meeting over $4.00 worth of literature was sold, with a guarantee that all of it would be read.

Next summer we mean to use this method in connection with the openair meetings and the sounty fairs, for the display trays make it possible for those who are interested to look over the stock quickly and to select what most appeals to their personal taste.

NOTES AND NEWS

The legislative hearing on woman suffrage in Massachusetts is set for the evening of Feb, 26. Those who want to read a good comic paper should buy “Judge." It stoutly upholds votes for women, and is running a regular suffrage page. Mrs. Florence Kelley and Mrs. Glendower Evans will address the anmual meeting of the Consumers' League of Massachusetts, to be held at 3 Joy street, Boston, next Tuesday at 3 P. M.

This edition of The Journal is a Maryland number. A quantity of additional material, relating to Mrs. Funck, Miss Maddox, Miss Beveridge, Lavinia C. Dundore, Baltimore City, etc., arrived just as the paper was going to press, and too late for insertion.

Gov. Chase S. Osborn of Michigan told, at the annual banquet of the Michigan Society in Chicago, how he finally decided to favor suffrage for women. A delegation of antis convinced him last winter. “You cannot extend too much influence in public life to women," he says.

hand fami- 303,

The Pennsylvania suffragists are to be congratulated on the style of argument used at the Anti meetings. Nothing better could happen for the suffrage cause than for all the opponents to state their reasons. The oftener the objections are brought out and aired the more evident their flimsiness becomes.

with emivate glish. speal 57 enian seven store, aglish Adtreet,

Miss Mabel Willard will address the Study Class of the Boston E. S. A. for Good Government, 585 Boylston street. next Tuesday, at 3 P. M. Subject, “Objections: 'Women too Emotional Wemen's Special Function. 'Women Unduly influenced by Church. “Indifference of Women."

acher, t fol ck of Bxdress venue,

Better men than ever before are standing for office in the coming city election in Seattle, says the Western Woman Voter. The non-partisan primary, the “recall" and woman suffrage all contribute to bring about this result.

this symif the mbly ppeal hear would

Morgan W. Shuster, formerly Treasurer-General of Persia, in a cabled interview declared that “the Persian women were ready to shed the last drop of their blood to free their country from ignominious subjection to Russia."

K to card s into have voters ed to idates paign. politim, for last

Mrs. J. W. Bengough, wife of the cartoonist, is touring California with ber husband. She is one of the leaders of the suffrage movement in Canada, and is doing her utmost to bring it to success. Mr. Bengough is an ardent advocate of votes for women, and they are both taking great interest in the California elections.

THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL., FEBRUARY 10, 1912

CATCHING THE SPARK

Some Women Ask, "What Can I Do?" Others Say, “Is it Dignified? What Will My Friends Think?" And Others Do Whatever is Set for Them to Do

Last week a woman of fully twoscore years came to the suffrage rooms and said she wanted to work for the cause, but did not know what to do. She was asked if she would fold circulars, address envelopes, make out membership cards, etc. She replied that she hated that kind of work. Then she was asked (gingerly) if she would like to. sell The Woman's Journal on the streets. To the amazement of everyone she became enthusiastic and wanted to know all about selling. She joined she selling corps on Saturday and was even more successful than some of the experienced workers. She is to sell papers on the street every Saturday. She is one type of suffrasist. Another type of suffragist said recently to a newsy, “I do not believe in selling papers on the street in the cold. I think it hurts the cause." When asked how it hurts the cause she said, “The newsies look cold, and who wants suffragists to be objects of pity?" One of her friends answered, “Girls look cold when they are skating and coasting, but no one thinks they should stop on that account." Another said, “Well, suppose they do look cold and pitiable? What ef it? Women without the vote are pitiable, aren't they? Don't you ever pity women when they want to do good work and are hindered simply because they are women? I think the mothers of this country are in very fact a pitiable lot because they have

NEW ENGLAND'S GREAT- EST PURE FOOD COOK

In Winthrop by the sea, a beautiful little city just without the limits of Boston, lives Norah Johnson Barbour. A wife, a mother, a home maker for her husband and two happy children, she yet finds time to guide, with the force of her indomitable enthusiasm, the destinies of a great business. Today, more than ever before, woman's work is being recognized. In literature, medicine, law, philanthropy, politics, religion, and in many great business enterprises, her influence as a power for good is felt. In fact, she is making herself indispensable in almost every walk of life.

in Norah Johnson Barbour's work, business as a means of financial gain is a secondary consideration. She realizes, as perhaps does no other woman, the vital importance of proper nourishment. So her whole thought and energy are centered in a business, the object of which is to supply the world with pure, wholesome, nutritious food.

Many years ago, Dr. Willlam L. Johnson practised his profession in cultured, historic old Boston. But Dr. Johnson saw beyond the limits of his office. He thought not so much of the dollar that came from a patient as of the patient's welfare. He was what might be called a practical dreamer whose vision reached whereever man lived.

During his practice of forty-two years, he came into daily contact with people suffering from lack of proper nourishment. Thousands of such cases convinced him beyond a doubt that the great majority of men and women give too little thought to how and what they eat. Dr. Johnson saw the folly of this tendency. He realized that, if continued, it would sreatly lower man's physical and mental efficiency.

So he resolved to remedy this unfortunate condition. He knew that whole wheat is the most nutritious food known to science. But he knew aiso that it should be prepared so as to compel mastication, since this is mecessary to perfect digestion and assimilation. After years of thought and study he gave to the world Educator Crackers and Foods. Working with her father, twentysix years ago, was Norah Johnson. Coming into daily contact with this sreat human benefactor, she absorbed his ideas and enthusiasm.

Another kind of suffragist is the kind who does not question whether it is dignified or pitiable or whether she likes to do it, but just gsoes ahead and does the thing that is needed. Such a one sells Journals on the street corner every Saturday afternoon. I had been told that she would not do it, and that I need not ask her. 1 did ask her and she joined the corps, and all these weeks I have been wondering what led her to do it. Last week I found out by accident. She said, “I heard Mrs. Pankhurst tell how the Englishwomen do i

She had heard Mrs. Pankhurst and had caught from her the spark of enthusiasm that has kept her selling papers on Saturday afternoons during the most severe days we have had this winter! Would that Mrs. Pankhurst had repeated that one speech of hers to every audience of suffragists in the country! Would that her sparks of enthusiasm had kindled such fire in the hearts of a hundred women that they could not stop short of action! Perhaps she has done just that, and perhaps I shall soon hear of other women who were made active by that wonderfu. speech. If it is a proud thing to be a suffragist, isn't it a shameful thing not to be an active one? There are three kinds of suffragists everywhere, but there is always room on the firing line!

Agnes E. Ryan.

the reward of his great work, but his principles are being maintained as strictly as though he were here to guard them. So it is. The originators of great ideas in time pass away. But if there are those to follow who live as they lived, think as they thought, and are saturated with their great enthusiasm, these ideas, in a constantly developing state, will pass down through the centuries to the everlast ing benefit of mankind.

Columbus gave to the old world the new. This was his life's work. But the new world weuld have meant little if later generations had not conquered its wilds and developed its unlimited resources. - Benjamin Franklin with his kite brought down from the heavens the electric spark. But how unavailable would this power for industrial development have been had not men of Edison's type adapted it to presentday needs

Norah Johnson Barbour is siving her life to the carrying out of her father's ideas. Her enthusiasm and energy are behind a great business undertaking. Her tactful diplomacy, her keen thought is evident in every move. She guards sacredly the standard of pure food excellence laid down by her father, and personally samples each day's bake to make sure that everything is just right. She does this so that everyone may obtain Educator Crackers that are just as gocd as those her father originated.

Norah Johnson Barbour has been called New England's greatest pure food cook—a cook who feeds humanity with Nature's perfect food. And at the same time she does not forget her social, religious or household duties. As she feeds her own children, so is it her desire to feed all mankind because she knows that man thus fed will reach a state of greatest intellectual, moral and physical efficiency. Surely, Norah Johnson Barbour is setting a standard for the thinkinsg, working, ambitious young women of today.

“The poetry and philosophy of Tennyson" is the title of an interesting course of six lectures to be given at Jordan Hall, Boston, on Wednesday evening beginning Feb. 21 by Prof. Edward Howard Grigsss. Prof. Grigss is a good friend of the suffrage cause and the suffragists who attend his course of lectures will enjoy them all the more because of this fact.

SUFFRAGE LITERATURE AND SUPPLIES Order any of the following from NATIONAL SUFFRAGE HEADQUARTERS 508 Fifth Avenue, New York of interest to Legisiators A revised and improved edition prepared especially for Legislatures where a suffrage bill is pendfg ... 00 A Suffrage Answer to An Anti-Suffrage Platform A new leaflet, in parallel columns. Every legislator should receive one this session ......... Per 100 25 Also good for general use............. Postpaid 30

of interest to Legisiators A revised and improved edition prepared especially for Legislatures where a suffrage bill is pend- 00 n A Suffrage Answer to An Anti-Suffrage Platform A new leaffet, in parallel columns. Every legislator should receive one this session ......... Per 100 25 Also good for general use............. Postpaid 30 LATEST PAMPHLETS

By Mrs. Harper The World Movement for Woman Suffrage ......... Postpaid How sSix States Won Woman Suffrage ............ Postpaid By Mrs. Porritt The Causes of the Revolt of the Women in England.. Postpaid The Militant Suffrage Movement in England ......... Postpald The Political Duties of Mothers ................... Postpaid Postpaid WHAT WOMEN MIGHT DO WITH THE BALLOT

A new series of pamphlets by eminent authors. Twelve are in preparation. The following four ready nmow: The Abolition of Child Labor By Florence Kelley The Abolition of White Slave Traffic .05 By Clifford G. Roe . Postpaid Reasonable Postal Laws By James L. Cowles 06 Fire Prevention By Arthur E. McFarlane Does the Husband Support the Wife? By Emmeline Pethick Lawrence, Editor of “Votes for Women," and Charlotte Perkins Gilman, Editor of “The Forerunner"....... 05 Postpaid 06 Report of the Special Commission Appointed by the Chamber of Deputies on the Workings of Woman Suffrage All Over the World Resume translated by Mrs. Raymond Brown... .05 Postpaid 06 Women Should Mind Their Own Business By Prof. E. J. Ward Why Man Needs Woman's Ballot 2 for .05 By Clifford Howard Postpaid 06 When All the Women Want it. By Alice Stone Blackwell Disfranchisement By Dr. W. E. Burghardt Du Bois............. 05 r Postpaid 06 Breaking into the Human Race ta Cl 05 Postpaid .06

LATEST LEAFLETS “The Ladies Battle" An Answer to Molly Elliott Seawell By Alice Stone Blackwell Mrs. Howe's Census Extracts from a Canvass of the Clergy in the Suffrage States Gains in Equal Suffrage A Table Showing the Progress in the Past Eighty Years Rainbow Fliers in German ........ The New America Suffrage Song Used in the California C CALENDARS

Rainbow Fliers in German .......FPer 100.15 The New America Per copy Fer 10 Suffrage Song Used in the California Campaign o1 Postpaid 02 8 CALENDARS A Woman's Calendar Quotations from Master Minds Printed in brown and sgold, 30 per cent. discount on orders of 13 or more.......... 50 Postpaid 54 English Santa Claus Calendar Gay color and pretty sentiment.......... 15 Postpaid 20 PENNANTS yellow felt with white letters Per do Larse sizse 13x30 inches... 50 5.4 25 2.4 ————————————

PENNANTS

THE NEW STICKER or SEAL An adaptation of the design showing Liberty welcoming the new star— California. Use them on all your letters and parcels. Neatly put up in oiled paper books of 100. Price, per book ..........$0.75 Price, 10 books ........ 5.00

A NEwW D O SU BADGE They stick tight Wherever they light, Try them and see. Good as Favors at Fairs, Luncheons and Teas, or to sell at meetings. Two for Five cents. $2,00 per 100. Postpaid $2.20 per 100.

NEW PICTURE POSTER

Liberty welcoming the sixth star.

rFor advertising meetings Space left for date and place. Size 36 x 42 in. Urinted in purple, green and white Price, singly—10c. Postpaid—.15 Per doz.—$1.,00 Postpaid—$1.25

Prejudice Justice.... An artistic picture issued by the Artists' Suffrage League. Price ........Five Cents Each

VOTES FOR WOMEN NOTE

nty colors in dainty bo PALE BLUE Lettered in silver PALE YELLOW Lettered in gold. 6oc Per Box Postpaid

Good as decoration. They are gay and yellow and each is tied with a votes for women ribbon. Price fe

NEW Si1X STAR BUT One cent each. 75 cents per 100. Postpaid 85 cents per 100.

Votes for Women Paper Napkins Just the Thing for Teas, Luncheons, Etc. Decorated with a Blue “Votes for Women" Border Order now Price 35 cents per 100, post paid.

Votes for Women Rubber Stamps Letters this size —VOTES FOR WOMEN — The easiest way in which you can advertise the cause. Stamp every letter you write this year.

PHOTOCRAPH CALLERY of EMINENT SUFFRACISTS

Price 15 cents, post pald. SLIDE LECTURES

An interesting eollection of portraits, mounted on canvas, all ready for hanging as a temporary exhibition.

65 Suffrage Pictures with typewritten lecture to accompany them. Can be delivered by any one.

The gallery may be rented to any suffrage association for the nominal fee of $1.00 plus expressage.

Rent of slides and lecture, $5 plus expressage. Special rates by the week or moath.

A Woman's Calendar

OTES FOR WOMEN

NEW POST CARD

ENCLISH POST CARDS

CALIFORNIA POPPIES

2 for 25c $1.50 Per Dozen

$1.50 Per Dozen

47

Per Per opy Doz. o1 10 02 12 05 50 06 54 .03 30 04 34 03 30 04 34 o1 10 .02 14 o1 10 02 13

--- page 8 ---
—

48

THE MOTHER OF THE RACE

By Laura Bell Everett

Goes she forth unclaimed, she champions orphan children, toil-o'erborne; Asks that laws protect their childhood, pleads for those who helpless mourn. When she's “wedded to conviction," let not man decry her part; It is hers to ease the sorrows of the old world's throbbing heart.

Not alone 'midst the zenanas is the message still unknown That the strong shall lift the weaker to a place beside his own. Where the Message from the Mountain, in its spirit, finds a place, She, “the female of the species," reigns, the Mother of the Race. Berkeley, Cal. WOMEN IN PUBLIC SERVICE

They Are Active and Useful in Many States

That women are eminently fitted to attend to municipal housekeeping is recognized by Comptroller Prendergast, who last week appointed Mrs. Anna W. von Hohoff examining inspector of the Inspection Bureau of the Finance Department of New York City. The duties of the Inspection Bureau are to examine and watch all purchases for the city and to certify whether they are according to specifications. When the Chief Inspector is away, Mrs. von Hohoff will be acting Chief Inspector in command of the Bureau.

Governor Goldsborough of Maryland has appointed Miss Sallie Dorsey State Librarian. Mrs. Ida Pearl Sylvester has been appointed by Mayor Seger to the School Board of Passaic, N. J. She is a graduate of Mt. Holyoke College, and is well qualified. The Mayor had been asked to appoint a woman by the pPassaic Equal Suffrage League, the Monday Afternoon Club, and a petition signed by 400 leading men and women of Passaic.

The contract of the State of Pennsylvania with Miss Violet Oakley of Philadelphia to take up the interior decoration of the State Capitol where the late Edwin A. Abbey left off, has just been signed. Miss Oakley is to have the entire decoration of the Senate Chamber, consisting of nine panels, and of the Supreme Court room. She will spend about a year in making studies and preliminary sketches. Much of the research will be done in Europe. Her sketches will be submitted to the Board of Public Grounds and Buildings for approval before the actual execution of the paintings is begun. The canvases will be painted at her studio in Philadelphia. She will give bond in the sum of $50,000 for faithful performance of the contract.

For services rendered to the fire department of New York City, three women, Miss Helen Gould, Mrs. Agnes Neustadt and Mrs. R. H. Mainzer, have been presented with gold badges

THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL, 10, 1912 which permit them to pass throush because the ity of w re mes. vote tor Womarn Miss Carrie Paghorn, a truant of- and, when the laws were once passed. ficer employed by the Board of Edu- would be more exacting in having cation, Atlantic City, N. J., has made them enforced. The antis need not an effective campaign this winter for worry that they would not have the prosecution of parents who fail enougsh charitable work to do, for, Cattle and S to send their children to scheol. with the combined efforts of all the Consideratic

The public safety committee of the New York City Federation of Women's Clubs is working for legislation to require fire alarm and fire drills wherever fifty or more men, women or children are employed. Some fifty members of the W. C. T. U., led by Mrs. Lillian M. N. Stevens of Maine, have gathered at Washington in behalf of bills for the regulation of the liquor traffic. St. Louls women are demanding an ordinance to provide clean places of amusement for the girls in that city. Suffragists and other progressive women in Delaware are striving for the establishment of a college for women to be affliated with Delaware College at Newark. The Consumers' League in Maryland is agitating for a ten-hour working day for women. New Orleans club women are protesting against the colored comic supplements. The New England Conference, representing 55,000 women, in session at New Haven, Conn., sent a message to Congress urging the passage of the Children's Federal Bureau bill. It would seem that the public service rendered by women ought to convince all sensible men of the exnodionowy of wiving them the balleft

F. M. A.

MAY POISON GIRLS

Effort to Prevent it Blocked in Congress

The bill to prevent the use of poisonous phosphorus in matches has been referred in the U. S. House of Representatives to a secret sub-committee of five—a course said to be without precedent. The use of this poisonous kind of phosphorus instead of the harmless kind is now forbidden in most European countries, but its abolitien in the United States is bitterly fought because the harmless kind costs a little more. The poison variety gives a terrible disease to the workers—but most of the workers are young girls, and their lives are cheap. They have no votes.

THE NEW CITIZEN Up-to-Date Paper Started by Louisiiana Women

Up-to-Date Paper Started by Louisiiana Women

Mrs. Sake D. Meehan is editor of The New Citizen, a paper for women just started by the Era Club of New Orleans. Mrs. Grace G. Watts and Mrs. Grace German Chamberlain are associate editors, and Mrs. Pauline Tewnsend Myers is circulation manager. The new periodical has 16 pages, good paper and type, and is full of interesting matter. A prominent article in the first issue is a strong plea for woman suffrage, entitied “Votes for Women, Why Not?" The New Citizen will be issued monthly at 624 Gravier street, except during July, August and September; price 50 cents; to clubs, 35 cents.

TOLD BY MISS ROYDEN

Test of a Feeble-Minded Woman

Miss Maude A. Royden told the following during her recent talk in Baltimore: On the occasion of a visit to a home for feeble-minded women, she asked the superintendent how she determined when a patient was sufficiently reeble-minded to warrant detention. “Well, you see," was the reply, “we have a large tank which is kept filled with water by a spigot at one end. The patient is given a ladle and told to empty the tank. Them that isn't reeble-minded turns off the spigot."

Women are at present classed politically with idiots—those poor creatures who, like the antis, are content to work forever trying to accomplish their end, but who aren't keen enough to realize that a vote would help to turn off the spigot and so shut off the supply, thus enabling them really to accomplish something. “Them that isn't feeble-minded turns off the spigot." Votes for Women will help them to turn off the spigot from which runs the supply of saloons, immorality, insanity, tuberculosis, etc.,

; and, when the laws were once passed, would be more exacting in having them enforced. The antis need not worry that they would not have enough charitable work to do, for, with the combined efforts of all the people, it will take years—more than eighteen (as in Colorado), or fortythree (as in Wyoming) to clear away entirely the accumulation of wreckage—the result of 136 years of onesided government.

ANTI HUMOR

Suffragist Relates Her Experienc and Draws Her Own Conclusions

I was standing in the Just Government League Booth at the Pure Food Show recently held. in Baltimore, attending strictly to my own business of offering suffrage flyers to all passersby. An irate anti pushed into the line directly in front of our booth and fairly shouted at me, “You ought to be in your home!" Naturally, I was shocked, but soon recovered sufficiently to ask meekly, “What is the trouble with you and our home?"

The only difference I could see was in my favor. I was out of my home, working, while she was out of hers on pleasure bent. A splendid example, thought, of the obtuseness of the anti style of argument. The Tables Turned

During this same Pure Food Show an anti friend of mine approached the booth with eyes wide open and lower jaw hanging. “You there?" she cried. “Why, yes," I replied, “why not?" “Come out of there right away!" she said. “I'm ashamed of you. What does Dr..—" (my husband) think of your engaging in this sort of work?" “He thinks it very nice, indeed. He belongs to the Men's League, you know. By the way, where is your husband?" “Why, he isn't here," she replied. “One of us had to stay home with the baby, you know." It was my turn. “Go home at once," Isaid. “I am ashamed of you. Go to your child—to your husband—to your four walls! Don't you know that only suffragists so grossly neslect their homes and families?"

Taffy and Woman Suffrage

“A little taffy now and then is ished by the best of men." “Six flavors, twenty-five cents a pound at the Suffrage Booth during the Horticultural Show in the Fifth Regiment Armory." So read the sign above the booth.

A dignified old gentleman, whose personal appearance vouched for the truthfulness of his remarks, approached the booth, read the sign, and. with a merry little twinkle in his eye, said to the suffragist in attendance: “Well, this beats all! I never in all my life heard of a lady selling taffy to a gentleman. Why, all the taffy I've ever had the ladies have given me!"

“That's just where you're mrstaken," the suffragist replied. “You've never received any taffy in your whole life which you haven't paid for—and dearly, too. You'—but the old gentleman had vanished. A Militant Anti A suffragist recently telephoned to a friend asking her to attend a club meeting that afternoon to hear Mrs. Hooker talk on votes for women, adding, “I know you are opposed, but 'm sure you are broad-minded enough to want to hear both sides of the questions."

“No, indeed," the friend replied. I have heard Mrs. Hooker speak three times, and if I went this afternoon 1 should throw a book at her head!"

Thus it may be seen that there are militant methods even among the antis.

HUMOROUS

Old Lady (to new arrival at Riviera Hotel): “And are you here for tennis or sgolf?" Newcomer: “Neither— bronchitis.'—Puck.

“I call that rank mratd “What now?" “After I teach that girl to skate, she goes to another fellow for a post-graduate course!"—Louisville Courier-Journal.

woman's Chicf Business

Cattle and Sheep, Hogs and Chickens get More Consideration at National Capitol than do Children, and yet Women are tfold they are Sufficiently Represented in the Government and Do Not Need

States Senate and the subject was A Proposed Children's Bureau. A bill had been introduced into Congress to have a children's bureau to “investigate and report upon all matters pertaining to the welfare of children and child life,"' and “especially investigate the questions of infant mortality, the birthrate, orphanage, juvenile courts, desertion, dangerous occupations, accidents and diseases of children, employment, legislation affecting children in the several States and territories, and such other facts as have a bearing upon the welfare of children."

Strange as it may seem in an enlightened country in the year 1912, there was grave opposition to such a bill What can one say of the men who opposed it? That they were ignorant of the awful thing they did? That they honestly believed that such a bureau ought not to be established? That they were acting in the best interests of the country? That they were representing the wishes of the people of the United States? Was it because they were representing the mothers of the nation? The answer is an emphatic “No" in each case

Some years ago a noted American author said that merely to preserve the balance of the population each married couple must have four children, “two to replace the parents and two to die." While it would not be fair to say that this represents every man's viewpoint, it certainly does represent the man's viewpoint in illuminating distinction from the woman's viewpoint, and as such it may throw a little light on the opposition to the Children's Bureau Bill.

Certain it is that no mother in her senses would deliberately speak of preserving the balance of the population by allowing for the death of two children out of every four. It is also certain that no mother in her senses would oppose the Children's Bureau. Is it credible that if mothers had the vote in this country today they would send to the United States Senate men who could so little represent them as to oppose a Children's Bureau?

The United States Government has live stock bureaus and it sends men all over this country to inspect the horses, cattle and hogs of the people. Some years ago an appropriation was made at Washington of $500,000 to fight the boll weevil. Approximately $125,000 per year are spent by the Government for the publication known as “Disecases of the Horse," of which each congressman gets 1,000 copies. But, as Senator Dickson said in discussing the matter, “When any attempt is made by the Senate of the United States to place the children of this nation on at least an equal basis with the hogs and the cattle and the sheep and the chickens, senators rise and discover great constitutional limitations and prohibitions.' When it comes to publishing the reports of such a bureau august senators have grave misgivings about furnishing the information contained in such reports to the general public. They make out that such reports ought not to be put into the hands of any child and that they ought not to be read or seen by women or children.

Now isn't it time that the mothers of the country took issue with these representatives of the people? What little children have to live against is certainly not too bad for their mothers to know! The august senators know that as soon as the mothers really know about these things, such men as oppose the Children's Bureau and the distribution of reports of such a bureau will no longer be returned to the Senate.

Mothers who bear little children in their bodies, mothers who go through the gates of death to bring them into the world and give the best years of their life to rearing them, know the value of child life, and were they voters in all the States of the Union as they are in six glorious Western States, there is not a senator in the present Congress who would dare to be party to the flippant discussion that took place in Washington the last week in January!

Get a copy of the Congressional Record of January 24, 1912, from your senator in Washington and read pages 1329 to 1336. Take the Children's Bureau as a text, and go forth to convert mothers to Equal Suffrage, and there is mot a doubt in the world but that you will enter upon the most vigorous and effective campaign for Votes for Women that has ever been known. Store up the facts about the Children's Bureau bill and take the facts to every woman you know who is not now a suffragist. Show her how close is the connmection between child welfare and the vote. See if you can find onehalf dozen responsible women in your community who do not believe in Votes for Women after the case of the Children's Bureau has been put to them.

Is there any wrong being done to women and girls which you would like dealt with? Send us the facts. We shall not use your name. But sign your name and address. We may want to write to you.

JRING the week of January 24 a group of men representing every State in the Union were holding a little session at the National Capitol and were discussing a matter of vital interest to every mother—not to say every woman—in the country. The group of men was none other than the United

The Vote

o

Agnes E. Ryan.

As pres City hope larg
