--- page 1 ---
he 5 CENTS THE COPY OFFICIAL WEEKLY NEWSPAPER OF THE 913, a e Post- ice a ashington, D. C., CONGRESSIONAL UNION FOR WOMAN SUFFRAGE

NoO. 4

DECEMBER 6, 1913

VOL.

oo ona a o o o oe aoe o e nnnnnni a

DR. ANNA HOWARD SHAW, PRESIDENT, CALLING TO ORDER FORTY-FIFTH ANNUAL CONVENTION NATIONAL AMERICAN WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION New Masonic Temple, Washington, D. C., December 1, 1913. On the platform were Jane Addams, Charlotte Anita Whitney, Mary Ware Dennett, Susan W. Fitzgerald, K atherine Dexter McCormick, Harriet Burton Laidlaw, Louise DeK oven Bowen, Nina Allender, Patty Ruffner Jacobs, Elinor Burns, Frances Maule Bjorkman, and Alice Paul

--- page 2 ---
PROGRAM OF THE SUFFRAGE SCHOOL FIRST WEEK

Monday, December Sth. Bibliogaphy of the Suffrage Movement. Mrs. FRANCES MAULE BJORKMAN. Pioneers of Hquel Suffreaesese. Miss ALICE STONE BLACKWELL. Sete Campagmsmsnsnsn. Mrs. MARY WARE DENNETT. Hartord, Conn, and Commercialized fieee. Mrs. THOMAS HEPBURN. How to Interest an Audinn. Dr. ANNA HOWARD SHAW. Su Work in Loumnmnmnn. Miss JEAN GORDON. womoble Camprin. Miss EMILY PIERSON. Tuesday, December 9th. Hitor of ederal Work for Woman Sras.10 Miss ALicE PAUL (N. J.) .................... Mrs. SHuERMAN Boorn (I1l.) C...... Miss JEANETTE RANKIN (Mont.) .................. Miss LavintA Dock (N. Y.) Results of ual Suffrae in Wyomnms. Hon. FRANK W. MonDELL (Wyo.) Story of Women's Education in the Last Centty. Miss ELtzA HARDY LorD (Mass.) Wednesday, December 10th. ow o win Feder ene. Miss ALICE PAUL. obbymgmMMM. Mrs. SHERMAN BOOTH. Suffrage Papers and orrmmnmm. Mr. JAMES KEATING. Assembly District orgmatn. Mrs. JESStE HARDY STUBBS. Results of Eoual Suffrage in Coloradoeee. Miss HELEN SUMMER. pPure ood Rtomm. Dr. HARVEY W. WILEY. Thursday, December 11th. The Woman Suffrage Movement in England (1867-1909).....10.00-11.00 Miss LUucy BURNS. obn................ Mrs. SHERMAN Boorn (I11.) Suffrage ..... Miss MARGARET FoLEY (Mass.) women nimnmnmnmm. Miss CONSTANCE LEUPP. Results of Eout Surage i Ihieeeeee. Senator BRADY. Intermational Movement for Woman Suffrage.20-10.00 Miss JANET RICHARDS. Friday, December 12th. The Woman Suffrage Movement in England (1909:1913.)...10.00-11.00 Miss LUucy BURNS. Mrs. SHERMAN BOOTH. Suffrage Plays and Pageantss.0550 Miss HAZEL MACK AYE. e Poion Woe. Miss EMILY A. SPILMAN. Results of Equal Suffrage in Utah, Mrs. GRoRon SurmERLAND.$00-9.00 Feminism, Mrs. THoMPSON SETON.5010.00 Saturday, December 13th. History of Women's Education, Miss H ons. Lobbying (V), Mrs. SuusMaN Boorm..o012.00 The Use of Congressional Documents in Suffrage Campaigns, Mrs. HuLN H. GARDENER. 2.30-3.30 Voting Women of the Middle Ages, Dr. Annte HeLos An.50-430 Results of Equal Suffrage in Washington, Hon. J. W. BRvAN.$,00-9.00 History of Manhood Suffrage in the United States, Mr. Lours F. Posr..9,00-10.00

26

REVIEW OF THE WEEK

THE PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE

UFFRAGISTS the whole country over are S indignant that President Wilson did not rise to the great opportunity before him and recommend in his message to Congress the support of the Woman Suffrage resolution nmow before Congress. In a State paper that urged the enfranchisement of the Igorrotes and the dog-eaters of the Philippines, Woodrow Wilson could find neither time, space, nor words for the plea of self-respecting, civilized women—mothers, wives, and daughters—that they be no longer classed with defectives and imbeciles. President Wilson has fallen short of a great opportunity. No other president has ever had such an opportunity as is before him at the present moment. Even yet it is not too late for him to speak a word which would hasten the enfranchisement of a large part of the human family.

CONGRESS CONVENES

The first regular session of the Sixty-third Congress convened at noon, Tuesday, December 2d. Both Houses adjourned to reconvene immediately in joint session to listen to the President's message. The political complexion of Congress has not changed since the special session. That special session occupied eight months in majestic indolence, and did nothing for Suffrage. This present session has the opportunity to do something for Suffrage—it certainly has the opportunity to pass the measure. This is a good time for you to begin to study your Congressman and his attitude on the amendment.

HEARING BEFORE THE RULES COM- MITTEE Wednesday, December 3d, was the first day of the hearing before the Rules Committee of the House on the question of creating a Committee on Woman Suffrage. Among the speakers were Dr. Shaw, Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, Miss Jane Addams, Mrs. Ida Husted Harper, and Representative John E. Raker, of California. On Thursday those opposed had their day, and on Friday those in favor appeared again.

NATIONAL CONVENTION

HE Forty-fifth Annual Convention of the National American Woman Suffrage Association opened Sunday afternoon, November 30th, with a mass-meeting at the Columbia Theater, which was packed with a large and representative audience. Dr. Shaw presided and Oliver P. Newman, president of the Board of Commissioners of the District of Columbia, welcomed the Convention on behalf of the city of Washington. Jane Addams, of Chicago; Senator Helen Ring Robinson, of Colorado; Margaret Hinchey, of New York; Rose Winslow, of New York, and Mary Anderson, of the executive board of the National Boot and Shoe Makers' Union, were the principal speakers. Elsewhere in this issue a detailed story of the Convention is printed.

MEN'S LEAGUE FOR WOMEN SUFFRAGE The District Men's League for Women Suffrage adopted a permanent organization and elected officers for the ensuing year at a meeting held in the Washington Public Library, Friday, November 28th. The following officers were elected: President, Dr. Harvey W. Wiley; vice-presidents, General Anson Mills and Gilson Gardner,; W. L. Stoddard, secretary and treasurer.

THE SUFFRAGIST

December 6, 1913

--- page 3 ---
TREASURER'S REPORT

Contributions toward $25,000 Fund for Securing the Passage of the Federal Suffrage Amendment.

HAT the Administration has not seen fit to advance the cause of Suffrage makes it imperative that the work of the Union be prosecuted with increased vigor and energy. We must bring every effort to bear on Congress and the Administration in order that it may be fully understood, not only that to longer refuse the franchise is an outrage on self-respecting womanhood but also that we and our friends and associates apprehend that outrage and resent it. The task is one of education, not in the justice and righteousness of our cause but

In this column an acknowledgment will be made of all ontrutoms receved during the time we have been at work. ......... 5 00 . .... ev. Coroline Bartlett Cranie. 2 00 t 5 00 n Heoc 100 on H.. 5 00 ocon Fostrr. 1 100 oneM Bradlty. 3 00 .. 35 ... 1 100 theBickne. 3 00 Women ... 5 00 eth C 2 00 6 00 Miss . F. Mason and Ida M. Mason.25 00 00 Collected by Miss Janet Richards.50 00 .. ..... .. 1 100 1100 5 00 Per Mrs. Lawrence Lewis, Jr5000 o Hon did. 2 00 Marthe W en. 475 5 00 on ..... 100 Elizabeth C. M. Montgomery. 5 00 2 00 collc. 20 is e .... 5 00 ...... eeea I M. 176 Woman's Suffrage Association of Maryland. 10 00 5 00 5 00 ie Dasyy. 1100 Josephine Apnclllt. 2 100 mt....... 1100 Mirs. Mory Lockwood:: 5 00 Mrs. Katherine Gillette-Hill...10 00 c 125 ce 7 80 . 1.100 ollo 3 00 e ... 5 00 Mr and Miss Philll. 5 00 NMr Charlote B Worrt. 2 00 m 1100 . 5 00 nee Hill. 300 .... 1100 ... 2 00 h........ 3 00 cBeline 5 00 ane M.......... 10 00 nt..... lorenee Wharton. 3 00 e 300 300

December 6, 1913

THE SUFFRAGIST

in applied democracy, in ethics, in economics.

This requires funds, literature, speakers, headquarters, national and local. ThE SUFFRAoisT, every tool that we use, requires the expenditure of money. Our local campaigns are sources of expense. Our literature is a source of expense. We need the constant and sincere financial support of all our friends. We nmeed your help. Will you not send us a contribution? MARY MORRIS LOCKWOOD, Acting Treasurer of the Congressional Union.

mendment. s wm ...... m t.... 5 00 monymon:: 5 00 Thorre. 1100 Political Equality Club, per Emma B. Sweet. 10 00 ome ... 1 00 uci eC Me 2 00 Marthea b.000 ust Government League of Maryland.35 00 n....... hbe Kine Eot 5 00 Mis Hiunenon Whon.00 ndderon. 5 00 ofecinnnn.. collectoion. Mine..000 Pee...... Miss M. Cockss. 5 00 Mart Dupont lee. 000 Anonynion. 10 00 NMe metCi.. 5 00 Ms Oppenheim.10 o0 Friends Equal Rights Association of New 5 00 Gen Ancon Milll.100 00 Mrs meon Mikkkkk. Cherlotte Whitneynyn.10 00 Cwolme B. teh. 5 00 Mrs. llen Stevenson. 5 00 Mis Roall Jonssss.0 nonmos. 1100 Collected by Jessie Wait Wright 5 00 Clendower EFnen. Mrs Clendone Eynnnn.0 Woman's Political Union, per Marcia Town- ....... corss..... dith 5 00 concn. 973 e...... 5 00 opheCMo...... M etttt... ed. 500 lenor illine.0 a.. 2 00 5 00 5 00 Katherime Seiberttss. 1100 Mshhh. 1 100 wel College uh. 10 00 ole .. 1 100 MrsM. Cooprssnn. 50 le Lewi Richd.... 2 100 h i ottt. 10 00 Cotnde ot o.... 5 00 Illinois Equal Suffrage Association.35 00 Zell Hart Deming, Ohio Woman's Suffrage 10 00 ee et.... 6 00 1100 ono. 1 100 Mr Helen Hll Weed. 5 00 ....... Miss julia Coldshorougdh. 5 00 40 ...... 2 00 to 300 nonmossss. 1 100 Previously Acknowledged...988 21 .........

27

CONGRESSIONAL UNION FOR WOMAN SUFFRAGE

HE colors adopted by the Union are pur- T ple, white, and gold, selected for the Significance they bear in the work the Union has undertaken. Purple is the color of loyalty, constancy to purpose, unswerving stead astness to a cause. White, the emblem of purity, symbolizes the quality of our purpose; and gold, the color of light and life, is as the torch that guides our purpose, pure and unswerving. Our cluster of ribbons has meaning and significance. It is the standard for justice to the race, for democracy that is real and whole, not hesitant and partial.

We maintain headquarters at 1420 F Street Northwest, in Washington. These rooms are situated near the Treasury Building, convenient to hotels, the shopping center, and Washington's chief amusement places. Members of the Union throughout the country are at liberty to make the Washington offices their headquarters while in the city—as a mail and telephone address, as a meeting place. Every convenience will be afforded members of the Union while in the capital. The Union gladly places its facilities at the service of all visiting suffragists, members or non-members.

The Congressional Union is a group of women in all parts of the country who have joimed together in the effort to secure the passage of an amendment to the United States Constitution enfranchising women. This Union was formed last May and now nmumbers nearly 800 women. It is an auxiliary to the National American Woman Suffrage Association.

The Union is open to all women who, believing that Equal Suffrage is a fundamental of democracy, consider Woman Suffrage the main issue in national politics. The entrance fee is 25 cents, after which no dues are named because it is known that every member will give to the limit of her ability. 1f you believe in the purpose and work of the Congressional Union, fill in the following membership blank and forward it, with the 25 cents entrance fee, to Congressional Union Headquarters, 1420 F Street, Washington,

Telephone Number. Occupation.

SUBSCRIPTION PRICE OF “THE SUF- FRAGIST"

The annual subscription price of The SUFFRAGIST is ONE DOLLAR, payable in advance. When this newspaper was first announced, and during the preliminary canvassing campaign, the price was placed at wIrTyY CENTS per year. When we actually began operations, however, the plan and scope of the paper were changed materially. We have today a much larger paper than originally planned, more generously illustrated, printed on a better grade of paper, and containing much more news matter. All of these changes—we consider them improvements—involve a greater manufacturing cost. To meet that we have been obliged to raise the subscription price to ONE DOLLAR. Honestly do you know of a better investment, a more satisfactory investment, or a more profitable investment for oNE DOLLAR than a year's subscription to THE SUFFRAGIST?

--- page 4 ---
28

VoLr. DECEMBER 6, 1913 No. 4

VoL. DECEMBER 6, 1913 NoO. 4 S Official weekly newspaper of the o CONGRESSIONAL UNION FOR WOMAN SUFFRAGE COMMITTEE: Miss ALICE PAUL, N. J., Chairman MRS. CRYSTAL EASTMAN BENEDICT, Wis. Miss Lucy BURNS, N. Y. MRS. LAWRENCE LEWIS, Pa. MRS. MARY BEARD, N. Y.

Editor: RHETA CHILDE DORR Business Manaser: MARTH A PIER TAGG EDITORIAL AND BUSINESS OFFICE 1416 F STREET NORTHWEST, WASHINGTON, D. C.

SUBSCRIPTION PRICEpDomestic. . $1.00 Foreign. . $1.50 Single copies 5 cents For CHANGE OF ADDRESS, send both old and new addresses. Checks, drafts, and postoffice orders should be made payable to The Suffragist.

For subscriptions, special club offers, etc., address CIR- CULATION MANAGER SUFFRA- GIST, 1416 F ST. NORTHWEST, WASHINGTON, D. C.

For advertising rates address ADVERTISING MANAGER SUFFRAGIST, 1416 FST.NORTH- WEST, WASHINGTON, D. C.

JAMES KEATING, General Manager Published by the CONGRESSIONAL UNION FOR WOMAN SUFFRAG

SENATE AND HOUSE JOINT RESOLUTION NUMBER ONE Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States extending the right of suffrage to women Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress Assembled (two-thirds of each House or im herem), That the following article be proposed to the legislatures of the several States as an amendment to the Constition of the United States, which, when ratified by three-fourths of the said legislatures, shall be yauid as part of said Constitution, namely “ARTICLE—

“ARTICLE— SECcTION 1. The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of sex. SEc. 2. The Congress shall have power, by appropriate legislation, to enforce the provisions of this article.”

HISTORY OF AMENDMENT

Thtrou need. In the Senate: April 7, 1913, by Senator George E. Chamberlain, of Oregon. In the House: April 7, 1913, by Representative Frank W. Mondell, of Wyoming. Referred In the Senate: April 7, 1913, to the Woman Suffrage Committee. In the House: April 7, 1913, to the Judiciary Committee. Reported: In the Senate: June 13, 1913, unanimous favorable report. Discussed: In the Senate: July 31, 1913, twenty-three Senators in favor, three opposing. September 18, 1913, Senator Wesley L. Jones, of Washington, demands immediate action. Present Status: In the Senate: Awaiting action. In the House: Before the Judiciary Committee.

THE PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE RESIDENT WILSON has not included o Suffrage as one of the subjects of his annual message to Congress. Nevertheless, the matter of votes for women will be a part of the legislative labors. It will also be a subject of political importance and interest. Tt is one of the real issues now before the coun-

THE SUFFRAGIST

try. Congress is compelled to take account of all matters which interest the people. It is, moreover, a subject of pending legislation. The Senate Committee on Woman Suffrage has favorably reported the amendment to the Federal Constitution removing the disqualification of sex on the right of franchise guaranteed to all other citizens. This resolution has been strongly supported in the Senate and is almost sure to pass that body and be reported to the House. The House, which for twenty years has ignored the question of Woman Suffrage, must now face it.

It is fortunate for the country and for the cause of Woman Suffrage that the House is so organized that responsibility may easily be placed. The Democratic Party is completely in control. The House Democrats operate by caucus and what the caucus decrees eventuates in legislation. The President has added his declaration that the Democratic Party, as a party, assumes responsibility for legislation or failure to legislate. Consequently, the Woman Suffrage cause knocks at the door of the Democratic Party.

The President has demonstrated that he is more than a “titular leader" of his party. The party responds to his leadership. This leadership is made effective through the Democratic caucus with its most effectual organizer, Mr. Oscar W. Underwood, and its overwhelming majority in the House. What the House does either in the matter of creating a new committee to consider Woman Suffrage or disposing of the Suffrage resolution now before them, will be the action of the caucus and of the President. It will be party action.

Inaction will be party inaction. Failure to give attention to this subject in the House will be failure of President Wilson to decree that the House shall give attention to this subject.

The President's mind is open. He has declared this frequently. That is all very well for the present. But his mind can not remain open indefinitely. Other minds are closing on this subject and the time has come for him to grapple with it and cease his policy of openmindedness, and to tell the country and his party what he thinks of this phase of the “new democracy," or, as he prefers to call it, “the new freedom."

The President intends to deal with trusts in a special message. He is not debarred from writing a special message on this subject, too. There are as many citizens interested in the subject of the woman's vote as in the rather trite and drawn-out matter of the trusts. The President expects to write a special message on the material development of Alaska. The fundamentals of democracy involved in woman's franchise is quite as worthy of a special message as the coal beds of Alaska.

The President is a busy man. The women of the country are no less busy in their work. The time has come when Congress and the Democratic Party must close their minds upon this subject. If the Democratic Party and the President are not opposed to Woman Suffrage, the present is the time to let the country know it.

The old Republican Party is planning to go along with the second party of the nation, the Progressive Party. Four political parties of the nation will then be on record in favor of Woman Suffrage, and thus the Democratic Party, if it now hesitates, will be the one party which is not in favor of giving votes to women. There are ten States in which women will help to choose electors to the next electoral college which chooses a President, and in those ten States the three and a half million women voters will be largely influenced by what the President and Congress do at this present session.

December 6, 1913

THE FEDERAL AMEND- MENT, ITS PRESENT STATUS.

UTSIDE the ranks of active suffragists, O it is probable that few people are aware that a Federal amendment to give the women of America equal suffrage is actually under the consideration of Congress. Such, however, is the fact. It is the privilege of the Women's Congressional Union to report on the progress of the amendment from its inception to the present date.

The Congressional Union has had the amendment in charge from the first and has made the work of securing its passage the chief object of existence. The amendment now before Congress reads as follows Sec. 1. “The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of sex. Sec. 2. “The Congress shall have power by appropriate legislation to enforce the provisions of this article."

This was the first measure introduced in the present Congress, having been presented in the Senate by George E. Chamberlain of Oregon and in the House by Frank W. Mondell of Wyoming, on April 7th.

Attention is called to the fact that the majority of the Senate Suffrage Committee are men from non-suffrage States, and one of them is from a most conservative Southern State. Yet, on May 14, 1913, the committee voted to report favorably the Chamberlain resolution, and when on June 13th, the report was submit ted to the Senate by Senator Ashurst, on behalf of the committee, it was without a single dissenting vote from any member.

In the Senate, a suffrage measure has five times before received a favorable majority report—in 1882, 1884, 1886, 1890, and 1892. In 1879, it received a favorable minority report. In the House it has only once before (1890) received a favorable majority vote. Favorable recommendation by the minority was, however, made in 1871, 1883, 1884, and 1886. This is the FIRST TIME that a suffrage measure has ever received a UNANIMOUS favorable report in Congress.

The Chamberlain resolution, now Senate Joint Resolution No. 1, was brought up for discussion on July 31st, when strong speeches in favor of the amendment were made by twenty-two Senators. Only three Senators spoke against the measure. On September 18th there was further discusson on the amendment, Senator Jones of Washington speaking at length, and calling for immediate action in regard to it.

At the present moment the measure is awaiting its third reading in the Senate.

The joint resolution was introduced in the House of Representatives by Representative Mondell of Wyoming. It was referred, according to usage, to the Judiciary Committee, and is still before that body awaiting action. Efforts are being made to secure the creation in the House of a suffrage committee similar to that of the Senate. Bills to this effect have been introduced by Representatives Taylor of Colorado, Hayden of New Mexico, and Raker, of California. The Progressive party in the House has caucused in favor of a suffrage committee. The three bills have been referred to the Committee on Rules, before whom the hearing elsewhere reported was held last week

The Suffrage resolution is therefore in committee stage in the House of Representatives, the proposed amendment being before the Judiciary Committee, and the bills to create a Suffrage Committee being before the Rules Committee.

--- page 5 ---
Hearing on House Woman Suffrage Committee

a x ;

ANE ADDAMS AND OTHER PROMINENT SUFFRAGISTS ON THEIR WAY TO THE HEARING BEFORE THE HOUSE COMMITTEE

December 6, 1913

BRILLIANT argument for a standing A committee on Woman Suffrage in the House of Representatives was made last week before the House Rules Committee.

A resolution authorizing the creation of a Woman Suffrage Committee in the House has been before the Rules Committee, where it has been under consideration for many months. An informal hearing on the resolution was granted by the Rules Committee last August to the National Council of Women Voters. The only result of these proceedings was the promise of a formal and more extended hearing on the same question during the first week of December. This promise was fulfilled on December 3d, 4th, and 5th.

On Wednesday, December 3d, the National Woman Suffrage Association presented a compact case for the resolution, Dr. Anna Howard Shaw presiding. The antisuffragists, introduced by Mrs. Arthur Dodge, spent Thursday morning, Thursday afternoon, and Friday morning opposing the formation of the committee and denouncing the principle of equal suffrage. On Friday afternoon the Suffragists made a brief but adequate rebuttal under the direction of Mrs. Catherine Waugh McCulloch.

The majority caucus room of the House office building, where the hearings were held, was crowded during the three days of the proceedings, especially on the opening day, when every available chair in the building was brought to the great room, and many people were still left standing.

Members of the Rules Committee Who Heard the Arguments There was a large attendance of members of the Rules Committee. Mr. Henry of Texas

THE SUFFRAG IST

chairman (Democrat), was present, as were also Mr. Pou of North Carolina (Democrat), Mr. Carrett of Tennessee (Democrat), Mr. Hardwick of Georgia (Democrat), Dr. Foster of Iinois (Democrat), Mr. Campbell of Kansas (Republican), Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania (Republican), and Mr. Lenroot of Wisconsin (Republican). Mr. Merritt of New York (Republican), Mr. Conry of New York (Democrat), and Mr. Cantrill of Kentucky (Democrat) were absent.

At the opening of the hearing Mr. Kelly moved that all meetings of the Rules Committee to consider the pending resolution, including executive meetings, be made open sessions. Mr. Lenroot amended the resolution by moving the omission of the words “including executive meetings.' The motion, thus robbed of its value, was passed. Dr. Shaw, arising, introduced Mrs. Helen H. Gardner, who said in part:

TFor many years we have been sent before the Judiciary Committee once a year, if we so desired, to present our arguments for Woman Suffrage. We appear before it, year after year, one day for two hours, and that is the end of it. That committee is a very busy one. The President has notified it that it is to be still busier this session. He has even gone to the length of giving its chairman notice that the heavy weight of this session is to fall upon the Judiciary. But the Woman Suffrage question is pressing for immediate solution.

“You will remember that there is a Committee on Indian Affairs; but Indians did not always have a special committee. They used to be a mere incident, as we are. When the Indians got a committee of their own, they began to get schools, lands, and the general status of human beings."

29

Jane Addams Speaks The speech of Miss Jane Addams was interrupted by a fire of questions from Congressman Hardwick of Georgia. Miss Addams began by reminding the committee that she had appeared before them last August when they granted a hearing to the National Council of Women Voters, and that at that time Congressman Hardwick had said that the question of altering the electorate was not a suitable subject for discussion in the United States Congress.

“I did not at that time," said Miss Addams, “have the opportunity to answer this statement, and will use the present occasion to show ten instances where Congress has taken the question of suffrage for men into its own hands."

Miss Addams referred first to the Fifteenth Amendment, which she admitted was not a happy instance to quote to a gentleman from Georgia. Other instances were the granting of the vote to Indians when their reservations were broken up; to former Confederate soldiers when they took the oath of allegiance; to the foreigners who fought in the Civil War, and to the men who were released and restored to citizenship after serving terms in Federal penitentiaries. Her sixth instance was the act of Congress providing for the direct election of Senators.

“My seventh point," said Miss Addams, “is the restoring of the ballot to men who have been disfranchised for desertion from the Army." Miss Addams cited the further instances of naturalized citizens, the disfranchisement of the wives of naturalized men in States where women have the ballot, and finally the case of Susan B. Anthony, who was

--- page 6 ---
: A 3 f ay. f

A TYPICAL THRONG AT A NIGHT MEETING OF THE NATIONAL CONVENTION. DR. SHAW DELIVERING HER CRITICISM OF THE PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE

National Convention at Washington

30

arrested by Federal, and not State, authorities, after having attempted to vote under the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment. The contention that a Woman Suffrage amendment should not come before the United States Congress was agaim discussed toward the close of the hearing by Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt. Mrs. Catt said

“We are going to stand by our rights to get the vote by Federal amendment. It is as easy a problem as it was to give enfranchisement to the negro, and while there are gentlemen from the South who do not think this was done in a conservative way, nevertheless it has stood the test of some forty years and is stil a part of our Constitution.”

Mrs. Ida Husted Harper and Representative Raker of California alsospoke. Mrs. Mary Beard pointed out the urgent need of the Democratic Party to espouse, for

N ENTHUSIASTIC meeting at the Columbia Theater on Sunday, November 30th, opened the Forty-fifth Convention of the National Woman Suffrage Association. The note of the Conven-

THE SUFFRAGIST

its own sake, the cause of Woman Suffrage.

In the course of the hearing Mr. Henry asked Dr. Shaw if the National Association would be satisfied if the Committee on the Election of President, Vice-President, and Representatives in Congress were given jurisdiction over the question of Woman Suffrage also. Dr. Shaw, after consultation with the National Board, said emphatically “No." The Committee on the Election of President, Vice-president, and Representatives in Congress, Dr. Shaw stated, would also be a very busy one in the coming session, since the question of presidential primaries urged by President Wilson in his message to Congress would come in due course to this committee. Suffragists would gair no jot of advantage by the trans ference of their question from one busy committee to another.

The speakers at the antisul- ———— on at Washington tion was struck by the series of resolutions put at the close of the meeting by the Democratic State Senator from Colorado, Mrs. Helen Ring Robinson

Resolved, That this opening meet-

fragists' hearing on Thursday and Friday included Mrs. Arthur Dodge, Mrs. E. H. Talbot, of Ohio; Miss Alice Hill Chittenden, of New York; Mrs. Robert Garrett, of Maryland; Mrs. A. J. George, of Massachusetts Miss Emily Bissell, of Delaware Miss Minnie Bronson, of Towa Miss Lucy J. Price, of Ohio, and Miss Ella L. Dorsey and Miss Elle Breant, of Washington.

Miss Alice Edith Abell, president of the Wage Earners' AntiSuffrage Association of New York City, said

“If the ballot would benefit any women, those most to benefit would be the working women, and they are the ones who do not want the ballot. They know that they would lose more than they would gain. Whenever women become equal with men before the law, which they would be if allowed to vote, they will lose all protective legislation which has been granted them because they are not equal legally

ing of the Forty-fifth Convention of the National Woman Suffrage Association, assembled in the Columbia Theater on November 30, 1913, Dr. Anna Howard Shaw, President, in the chair, calls upon the President of the United States in his forthcoming message to Congress to

December 6, 1913

“The wage-earning woman already has more of the responsibilities of man's life than she wants. She has found herself unequal in many ways to discharge the masculine responsibilities which her industrial independence has brought her. She has all and more than she can satisfactorily attend to, and she objects to having more thrust upon her.”

At the rebuttal the following day Miss Alice Stone Blackwell, Mrs. Catherine Waugh McCullough, Mrs. Ida Husted Harper, Mrs. William Kent, Mrs. John Rogers, Jr., Mrs. Thomas Hepburn, Representative T. W. Mondell, Mrs. Solon Jacobs, Mrs. Baldridge, Mrs. Oscar Huntley, Mrs. French of Tennessee, Mrs. Wester of Tennessee, Miss Helen Todd, of California, and others spoke. The rebuttal was extremely pointed and witty. The committee will announce its decision later.

adopt the Woman Suffrage Constitutional Amendment as an Administration measure and urge Congress to take immediate and favorable action upon it; and Resolved, That the meeting calls upon the United States Senate to act favorably on the Woman Suffrage

--- page 7 ---
December 6, 1913

Constitutional Amendment, now before it; and be it further Resolved, That the meeting urges the Rules Committee of the House of Representatives to report favorably on the resolution creating a standing committee on Woman Suffrage in the House. The resolutions were enthusiastically carried by the whole meeting with but two dissenting votes.

The case for Woman Suffrage was eloquently stated at this meeting by Miss Jane Addams, Miss Margaret Hinchey, laundry worker; Miss Rose Winslow, weaver; Miss Mary Anderson, member of the National Sock and Shoe Maker's Union, and the distinguished woman Senator, Mrs. Helen Ring Robinson.

This Sunday meeting was the first of a series of packed evening meetings. On Monday evening, Mrs. Grace Wilbur Trout, Mrs. Medill McCormick, Mrs. Sherman Booth, Mrs. Ella S. Stewart, and Mrs. Catherine Waugh McCulloch of Chicago, told of the battle for Suffrage in Illinois, and the steps by which victory was achieved. Dr. Anna Howard Shaw devoted an impassioned and powerful address to the subject of Federal work for Woman Suffrage. Miss Lucy Burns, vice-chairman of the Congressional Committee, stated clearly and briefly the purpose of the meeting as follows

“The National Woman Suffrage Association is assembled in Washington to ask the Democratic party to enfranchise the women of America.

“Rarely in the history of the country has a party been more powerful than the Democratic party is today. It controls the executive offices, the Senate, and more than two-thirds of the members of the House of Representatives. It is in a position to give us effective and immediate help. “We ask the Democrats to take action now. Those who hold power are responsible to the country for

Ss

A CORDIAL INVITATION I1S EXTENDED TO THE DELEGATES AND VISITORS TO THIS CON- VENTION THIS Shopping Headquarters

Full and complete stocks in the following lines of merchandise facilitate shopping— Women's and Children's Outfittings of all kinds Full assortments of Yard Goods Books and Stationery Toys and Games Art Goods, Housefurnishings, Upholsteries, Trunks, Leather Goods, Jewelry, Toilet Goods, Umbrellas, Candies and many other lines. THE ONLY DEP ARTMENT STORE ON PENNSYLVANIA AVENUE

THE SUFFRAGIST

the use of it. They are responsible not only for what they do, but for what they do not do. Imaction establishes just as clear a record as does a policy of open hostility.

“We have in our hands today not only the weapon of a just cause; we have the support of ten enfranchised States. More than 3,600,000 women have a vote in Presidential elections. Itis unthinkable that a nationalGovernment which represents women and which appeals periodically to the suffrage of women, should ignore the issue of their right to political freedom.

“We can not wait until after the passage of scheduled administration reforms. These reforms, which affect women, should not be enacted without the consent of women. Congress is free to take action on our question in the present session. We ask the Administration to support the Woman Suffrage Amendment in Congress with its whole strength.”

Other propaganda meetings were held on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday evenings. On Tuesday, the program was arranged by Mrs. Joseph Tilton Bowen, of Chicago. The subject of the evening was “The Position of Women Before the Law." The speakers on Wednesday evening were Mr. James Lees Laidlaw, president of the National Men's League for Woman Suffrage, Representative Victor Murdock, of Kansas; Representative Frank W. Mondell, of Wyoming; Mr. Gifford Pinchot; Representative William Kent, of California; Representative James W. Bryan, of Washington, Mr. Charles Edward Russell, and Judge John S. Crosby. On Thursday evening, Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt spoke with Miss Harriet May Mills and Mrs. Thomas Hepburn.

During the course of the Convention, over $15,000 was raised by subscription for the work of the National Association. The Con- DEWEY HOTEL t4th and L Streets N. W. WASHINGTON, D. C.

SELECT FAMILY HOTEL OPENTHE YEAR ROUND

SELECT FAMILY HOTEL OPENTHE YEAR ROUND We Make a Special rate for Suffragists. THE PALAIS ROYAL

Suffragist Clothing Headquarters G and 11th Sts. WASHINGTON, D. C.

W. W. BROWN

vention voted also that each affiliated socicty pay into the National Treasury 10 cents on every member up to 5,000 members, and if this amount is less than 5 per cent of the total expenditures of the affiliated society for the past year, that the society make its contribution equal to 5 per cent of its expenditures. The National Association can thus count on adequate financial provision for the work of the coming vyear.

The plan to make the literature department of the National Association a stock company, incorporated at $50,000, was launched with very little difficulty. Eleven thousand dollars to float the project was offered on the floor of the Convention within a few minutes.

The following officers were elected for the coming year: President, Dr. Anna Howard Shaw; First Vice- President, Miss Jane Addams, of Chicago; Second Vice-President, Mrs. Desha Breckenridge, of Kentucky; Third Vice-President, Miss Caroline Ruutz-Rees, of Connecticut; Recording Secretary, Mrs. Susan Walker Fitzgerald, of Massachusetts;, Corresponding Secretary, Mrs. Mary Ware Dennett, of New York; Treasurer, Mrs. Katherine Dexter McCormick, of Massachusetts; First Auditor, Mrs. Harriet Burton Laidlaw, of New York; Second Auditor, Mrs. Louise De- Koven Bowen, of Chicago.

A delightful reception, in honor of the officers of the National Association, to delegates and visitors attending the Convention, was given by Senator and Mrs. La Follette, in their home at 3320 Avenue of the Presidents. Those in the receiving line were Senator and Mrs. La Follette, Mrs. Josephus Daniels, Mrs. Albert Sidney Burleson, Mrs. Franklin K. Lane, Mrs. David Franklin Houston, Mrs. Miles Poindexter, Mrs. Reed Smoot, Mrs. Victor Murdock, Mrs. W. L. La Follette, Mrs. J. W. Bryan, Mrs.

Locust and 13th Streets

Convenient to railroad stations, theaters and shops. Desirable suites and single rooms with bath. Booklet Mailed.

TheLaw Reporter Printing Company

PRINTERS, STATIONERS, and LEGAL BLANK MAKERS

518 Fifth St. N. W., Washington, D. C. Wopxs: 1206-1208 Phones, Man

RENCH DYEING AND CLEANING Office 826 12th St. N. W., Washing ton, D.C. ACHILLE E. BURKLIN, Proprietor

Most Sanitary Lunch Room in Washington, D. C. —

THE LINCOLN

PHILADELPHIA

FrANK B. CrROWN, Manager

Lerch's

NEW TREASURY LUNCH 14268 F Sweet Near Sugrage Headquarters CENTURY LUNCH

31

DELEGATES

Don't fail to look over our full assortment of Christmans GCards

Our new and exclusive designs should be seen before purchasing elsewhere

Calendars Leather Novelties Christmas Gifts

HAUSLER & CO. Fine Starionery and Engraving 741 FIFTEENTH STREET The Finest That Nature Produces THE FRUIT AND NUT SHOP Our delicious Gift Fruits possess both the Ouality and Loveliness that renders them Charming Tokens

MILLARDS" DRESS SHOP for refined styles in Gowns and Blouses Sensible Prices Prevail 127 So. 13th St. - PHILADELPHIA

Bell Phone Locust-1534 S. SACKS Ladies' Tailor and Importer 1833 Spruce Street Philadelphia, Pa. Furrier Habit Making a Specialty Furs of the Better Grade— THEO. F. SIEFERT 1426 Walnut Street Philadelphia, Pa.

HOTEL DONALD

13th and K Sts. N. W. (Franklin Square) Washington, D. C. Exclusive Family Hotel—American Plan Rooms Single or en suite. Rates, $2.50 per day and up. Politeness Cleanliness ROYAL LUNCH C. Georgeou, Prop. 1416 New York Avenue Northwest Evans Building, WASHINGTON, D. C. MEYER'S MILITARY SHOP

1231 Pa. Ave. N. W. WASHINGTON, D. C.

MANUFACTURERS OF

MANUFACTURERS OF

MANUFACTURERS OF

FLAGS BADGES BANNERS Low Prices : Quick delivery

--- page 8 ---
32

E. BRADFORD CLARKE Co.

GROCERS AND DEALERS IN IM- PORTED AND DOMESTIC DELICACIES G

G

1520 Chestnut Street PHILADELPHIA PA. Commercial National Bank WASHINGTON, D. C. A. G. Clapham, Pres. James A. Cahill, Vice-Pres. T. K. Sands, Vice-President and Cashier F. E. Ghiselli, Ass't Cash. H. V. Hunt, Ass't Cash. Resources --$$:8,000,000 Your Account Invited Florist

Florist Perfect Blossoms Prompt Service HENRY PFISTER 1120 Connecticut Avenue WASHINGTON, D. C.

Delicious Cooking Nutritious Foods VEGETARIAN DINING ROOM 1219 G Street N. W., WASHINGTON, D. C. Phone, Main 3567 Wholesale Retail

Retail

Wholesale

JOHN H. MAGRUDER Fine Groceries Connecticut Ave. and X St. WASHINGTON, D. C.

Established 1804 LUTZ & COMPANY Incorporated Trunks, Bags and Leather Goods “of the Better Grade" 1325 G Street England's Best Ladies' and Men's Gloves Harness and Saddlery with all its Accessories

THE NEW EBBITT WASHINGTON, D. C.

within two blocks of the Convention Hall and just across the street from your Headquarters

A MODERN HOTEL WITH MODERN SERVICE

G. F. SCHUTT, Proprietor ASH

ASH Importer of Fine Millinery 1416 H Street WASHINGTON, D. C

THE SUFFRAGIST

J. S. Raker, Mrs. James A. Frear, Mrs. Henry T. Ramey, Mrs. Albert B. Cummins, Mrs. John D. Works, Mrs. William Kent, Dr. Anna Howard Shaw, Miss Jane Addams, Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, and Mrs. George Middleton.

The political event of Convention week was the reading of the President's message to Congress on Tuesday afternoon. The President had been urged by Suffragists and Suffrage Societies throughout the country, by the National Association assembled in Convention, and by a delegation of women from the DPresident's State of New Jersey to take up the burning question of Woman Suffrage in his next message to Congress. The President failed to do so, and pointed the omission by urging the speedy enfranchisement of Filipino men. In a speech of great restraint and depth of feeling, Dr. Shaw, on Tuesday evening, commented as follows on the President's message

“It is a source of deep disappointment to one-half of the citizens of the United States,' Dr. Shaw said, “that in his address to Congress our President has neglected to mention, even by indirection, the vital question of Equal Suffrage. We are convinced that the President is not unmindful of the importance of our cause. We had hoped that he would realize the nation-wide importance and interest in this question, and would indicate some response to this. The President found time and space to urge the recognition of the Filipino's right to independence. He found time and space and propriety for his argument in favor of the extension of the fullest territorial rights to the people of Alaska.

“We had hoped that the President would recognize this greater need. We feel that the measure of

PROGRAM FOR THE WEEK

ashington, D. C. Saturday, December 6th, 8 P. M. —Tenth Street and Pennsylvania Avenue; open-air meeting. Speaker, Miss Margaret Foley, of Boston. Monday, December 8th, 8 P. M.— Seventh and H Streets, openair meeting. Speaker, Miss Mabel Vernon. Tuesday, December 9th, 8 P. M.— Seventh Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, open-air meeting. Speaker, Miss Elsie Hill. Wednesday, December 10th, 8 P. M.—Fourteenth Street and Park Road; open-air meeting. Speaker, Mrs. Minnie E. Brooke. Thursday, December 11th, 8 P. M. —Tenth Street and Pennsylvania Avenue; open-air meeting. Speaker, Miss Margaret Foley.

REAL ESTATE TRUST COMPANY 1414 F Street Northwest Washington, D. C. Sales, Rents, Loans, Insurance. 6% First Mortgage Notes. 5% First Mortgage Certificates. Exclusive Agents, Beautiful Bradley Hills Suburb.

disappointment which is ours under the circumstances is a grave one. It was the time for President Wilson to have spoken. The timeliness was the paramount factor in our belief that the President would speak.

“He has fallen short of the greatest opportunity which has come to him. No preceding President ever had such an opportunity. Even Lincoln's opportunity to free a race by a word is not comparable with President Wilson's opportunity to release from the bondage of disfranchisement half the human family.”

Action on the President's message was taken on Wednesday afternoon, when Mrs. Medill McCormick, of Chicago, made the following motion

Since the President omitted all mention of Woman Suffrage in his message of yesterday and since he has announced that he will send several other messages to Congress, outlining the measures which the Administration will support, I move that the whole Convention wait upon the President to enlighten him concerning our movement, and to demand that he make the Woman's Amendment an Administration measure, recommend it immedfately to Congress, and insist that it be considered before taking up any other legislation whatsoever.

I also move that a committee of two be appointed to make the arrangements with the President.” An amendment weakening the motion was overwhelmingly voted down. Mrs. Medill McCormick and Mrs. Desha Breckenridge, of Kentucky, were asked by the chair to act as members of the Committee on Arrangements. The result of the interview with the President will be announced in next week's SUFFRAGIST.

Friday, December 12th, 8 P. M.— Seventh Street and Pennsylvania Avenue; open-air meeting. Speaker, Miss Mabel Vernon. PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS

Visitors to the Suffrage School and others will find the advertising columns of THE SUFFRAGIST a reliable and dependable shopping guide to Washington. Every one of the advertisers we know will give the purchaser who comes through this newspaper absolute satisfaction. We ask you to patronize them because they fully merit your patronage.

THE MANAGEMENT of THE Sur- FRAGIST is anxious to secure volunteers to act as paper sellers on the street. Will all who are able to help in this way communicate with Mrs. Martha Tagg, 1416 F Street Northwest, Washington, D. C.

THE NECKWEAR SHOP DAVID FISHER, Proprietor Successor to Miss Bessie Rubenstein 1209 G Street Northwest WASHINGTON, D. C.

PAPER SELLERS

CeaCu m

8322 Connecticut Ave (Opp. Rochambeau)

Luncheon, Dinner, Afternoon Tea

Cea cup Inn Lunch and Cea $hop 1307 F Street

Cafeteria and Service Dining Rooms

Cea gup Inn Business Lunch 730-732 Fifteenth St. (Open froem 7.30 A. M. to 8 P. M.) Cafeteria Service (Open Sundays)

Our Home-made Candies on Sale at All the Inns

JOHN C. WINEMAN $ CO. HIGH-CLASS TAILORING FOR MEN AND WOMEN AT POPULAR PRICES 914 F Street Northwest

LANMAN ENGRAVING COMPANY o WASHINGTON, D. C. HALF TONES ZINC BETCHIN GS PROCESS ENGRAVERS ILLUSTRATORS DESIGNERS

BORDEN'S Jpecialist in Hair Goods The Borden Patented H.AIR GOODS Combined with ever-desirable airy lightness, a masterly simplicity in construction allowing instant adjustment. Absolutely no cumbersome stems or cords, no lace, net, or wires. Of fluffy, natural, wavy hair. They are fashioned in natural

GR.AY and tDHITE H.AIR Also in beautiful Golden Blonde to deep Lustrous Black. Yes; we make up your combings beautifully. But mone are bought or sold at any price. pPatented Upright Shampooing, Manicuring, Children's Hair Cutting. High Frequency used in treating the scalp. 704 Eleventh Street N. tD. DHONE M.AIN 43445 LD.ASHINGTON sbury Park Atlantic City

TERMINAL TAXICABS NEW, GLEAN, PROMPT TEL. NORTH 1212

December 6, 1913

Atlantic City
