--- page 1 ---
Sufffaist

PUBLISHED BY THE UNION FOR WOMAN SUFFRAGE AND THE NATIONAL WOMAN'S PARTY

SiDE oNntt.

New York Pickets at the White House Gate

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 31, 1917

--- page 2 ---
Congressiomal Rnion for Woman Suffrage National Woman's Harty

NATIONAL HEADQUARTERS, LAFAYETTE SQUARE, WASHINGTON, D. C., Tel. Main 5437 BRANCH HEADQUARTERS: Delaware, 17 East 7th Street, Wilmington Marytand, 817 N. Charles Street, Baltimore, Tel. Mt. New 709 Union Building, Clinton Street, Tel. Wilmington 5580 Vernon 3279 Newark. Distriot of Cotumbia, Lafayette Square, Washington, Mossachusetts, 401 Phillips Building, 120 Tremont New York, 13 East 41st Street, New York, Tel. Mur- S 252 ray H 50 East 42d Street, N. Y, City (City Committee) Building, Chicago, Tel. Ran- Michigan, 118 Farmer Street, Detroit oe Builaing, State and Sixtn Streets, Coumbus. Indtana, The Arcade, West Washington Street, In. Minnesota, 206 Studlo Bullding, corner Market and Pennsyivania, 213 Hale Bulldins, Philadelphia, Tel. dianapolis Fourth Street, St. Paul Filbert 3652

MEMBESHIP Ope to a women who, regardims woman suffrage as the foremost political issue of the day, will support it irrespective of the interests of any national political party.

Mrs. Phoebe Hearst, Cal., Vice-chairman Miss Mabel Vernon, Nev., Secretary Miss Alice Paul, N. J., Bz-officio Dr. Margaret Long, Col., Treas.

th Middle Western States—Mrs. A. R. Colvin, Minn. Inland Suffrage States—Mrs. E. M. Garnett, Utah.

INTRANCE FEE: Twenty-five cents. There are no dues.

Mrs. Frederick T. Ackermann, N. Y. Mrs. Lewis L. Delafield, N. Y. Mrs. Robert Adamson, N.Y. Miss Lavinis Dock, Pa. Mrs. Charles F. Amidon, N. Dak. Mrs. Rheta Childe Dorr, N. Y. Miss Jessie Ashley, N. Y. Miss Crystal Eastman, N. Y. Mrs. Mary Austin, Cal. Mrs. William . . Dr. S. Baker, N. Y. Mrs. J. Andre Fouilhoux, Ore. Mrs. Adoiphus Clay Bartlett, Ill. Miss Susan P. Frost, S. C. Mrs. Bea Wyo. Mrs. Emma Maddox Funck, Md. Mrs. Mary Ritthr Beard, N. Y. Mrs. Elizabeth Cal. Mrs. Edward Mich. Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Gilman, N. Y. Mrs. Alfred Minn. Mrs. E. Graupner, Cal. Reverend rown, Wis. Edwin O. Grice, Pa. Miss Mary A. Burnham, a rs. Jennie Law Mich. Mrs. Dora Buell, Col. Mrs. W. E. Hardy, Neb. Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, Utsh Mrs. H. O. Havemeyer, N. Y. Mrs. John Carey, Ind. Mrs. F. R. Hazard, N. Y. Mrs. Mrs. Phoebe A. Hearst, Cal. Mrs. Willlam L. Golt, N. Y. Mrs. William Randolph Hearst, N. Y. Miss Anna Constable, N. Y. Mrs. George Hendrie, Mich. Mrs. Coonley, Ill. Mrs. Frederick C. Howe, N. Y. Mrs. Frank Cothren, Ill. Miss Mary Ingham, Pa. t, C Mrs. George H. Day, Conn. Mrs. Agnes M. Jenks, R. I. Dr. Maria M. Dean, Mont. Dr. Cora Smith King, Wash.

2

Miss Alice Paul, N. J., Chairman Miss Lucy Burns, N. Y. m Miss Anne Martin, Nev., Chairman Finance Lobl Miss Alice Carpenter, N. Y. M iss Anne Martin, Nev. Men Literature M Miss Mary Gertrude Fendall, Md.

Miss Beulah Amidon Miss Lucy Branham Miss Iris Calderhead Middle Atlantic States—Mrs. Henry Bruere

rizond Mrs. H. M. Clagett, Nogales Arkansas Mrs. Edward M. Jarrett Hotel Rex, Zellville, Marion Co. California Mrs. Ida Finney Mackrille, 1271 37th Avenue, San Francisco Colorado" Mrs. Bertha W. Fowler 1225 Wood Avenue, Colorado Springs Connecticut Mrs. W. D. Ascough 56 Wa Sret, Hartor Delaware Mrs. Florence Bayard Hilles 17 East 7th Street, Wilmington District Columbin Mrs. W. T. Burch, 21 Madison Place, Washington, D. C. Idaho Mrs. Frederick Walker, co Travyeling Library, Oxford Hotel, Boise Illinots Mrs. Bertram S 1004 Stevens s., Chicago

Colors—Purple, White and Gold e United States Constitution enfranchising women. regarding woman suffrage as the foremost political iss here are no dues. National Executive Committee of the Con Mrs. O. H, P. Belmont, N. Y. Mrs. Gi n Mrs. Harriot Stanton Blatch Kas. Mrs. De Mrs. Tohn W. Brannan, N. Y. Mrs. W

National Executive Committee of the Congressional Union Mrs. O. H, P. Belmont, N. Y. Mrs. Gilson Gardner, D. C. n Mrs. Harriot Stanton Blatch, Kas. Mrs. Donald R. Hooe Mad. Mrs. John W. Brannan, N. Y. Mrs. William Kent, Cal. Treasurer, Miss Joy L. Webster, Neb. Assistant Treasurer, Miss Gertrude L. Crocker, Ill. Secretary, Miss Mabel Vernon, Nev. Officers of the National Woman's Party Mrs. Phoebe Hearst, Cal., Vice-chairman Miss Alice Paul, N. J., Bz-officio National Departments

Executive Secretary, Miss Virginia Arnold, N. C. National Organizers

District Chairmen

lational Committee of State Chairmen

ndiand Miss Eleanor Barker, 611 Fletcher Sevings & Trust Co., Indianapolis Kansas Mrs. Dan Casement 43 Nor Sreet, Manbattan Maine Mrs. Robert Treat Whitehouse, 42 Deering Street, Portland Marpland Mrs. Townsend Scott, S17 North Charles Street, Baltimore assachusetts Mrs. H. Morey, 120 Tremont Street, Boston aichigan Mrs. Nelson Whittemore, 2967 West Grand Boulevard, Detroit Minnesote Mrs. A. R. Colvin, Davern Avenue, St. Paul Missourd Mrs. Edith Barriger, 5430 Cabanne Avenue, St. Louils Montana Mrs. C. S. Haire, 528 Iemlock Street, Helena

National Advisory Council

Miss Mildred Gilbert Miss Sarah Grant Miss Alice Henkle

Cal., Vice-chairman Miss Ez-officio Dr. M artments National Headquarters, Committee of 200 Maintenance of Mrs. william Kent, Cal. Organization Miss Doris Stevens, Neb. ss Virginia Arnold, N. C. organizers Miss Elsie Hill Miss Hazel Hunkins Miss Marion McGaw

Nevada Mrs. M. S. Bonnifield, Winnemucca New Jersey Mrs. J. A. H. 17 West Park Street, Newark New Megico Mrs. Joshua Raynolds, 308 South High Street, Albuquerque New York Mrs. O. H. P. Belmont, 13 East 41st Street, New York City North Dakota Mrs, Elizabeth Darrow O'Netil, 714 Eighth Street, Fargo Ohio Mrs. Mead, vandalila CEklahome Mrs. G. W. England, 200 West 6th Street, Oklahoma City Oregon Dr. Florence Manion, 517 Medical Building, Portland Pennsylvanta Miss Marie Ernst 213 Hale Bldg., Philadelphia

Miss Fola La Follette, N. Y. Miss Gail Laughlin, Calif. Mrs. Lola Maverick 1ll, Mrs. Jessie Hardy Mackaye, D. C. Mrs. Lionel S. Marks, Mass. Miss Julia T. Miss Helen Marot, N. Y. Mrs. Harris Masterson, Tex. Miss Edythe Wynne Matthion, Conn Miss Marion May, N. Y. Miss Vida Milholland, N. Y. Mrs. Lilla Day Monroe, Kans. Mrs. John T, Morrison, Idaho Mrs. Henry Moskowitz, N. Y. Mrs. William Spencer Md. Mrs. Ellen . C. Mrs. Meredith Nicholson, Ind. Mrs. Adelina Otero-Warren, N. M. Mrs. Marsden Perry, R. I. Mrs. Annie Porritt, Conn. Mrs. Alden Potter, Minn. Mrs. William Prendergast, N. Y. Mrs. Nina G. Proctor, N. Y.

Secretary, Miss Maud Younger, Cal.

Mabel Vernon, Nev., Secretary argaret Long, Col., Treas. iss Hazel MacKaye, Mass. Press Mrs. Robert Baker, D. C. Research Mrs. Helena Hill Weed, Conn.

Miss Gibson Ross Mrs. E, St. Clair Miss Margaret Whittemore rage States—Mrs. B. M. Garnett, Utah.

South Carolina Mrs. John Gibbs, 9 Pitt Street, Charleston South Dakota Mrs. A. R. Fellows, Sioux Falls Tennessee Mrs. Hugh L. White, Johnson City Tezas Mrs. Clara Snell Wolfe, 909 West 18th Street, Austin Utah Mrs. Margaret Zane Cherdron, 1901 South 9th Street, mast, Salt Lake City vermont Mrs. J, Borden Estee, Montpelier Mrs. G. Meredith, 204 st Grace Streef, Richmong Washington Mrs. Otis Floyd Lamson, 1237 Federal Ave., Seattle wWisconsin Miss Ada James, Richland Center Wyoming Dr. Frances M. Lane, Cody

Mrs. James Hayden Rector, Ohio Mrs. Henry Del. Miss Ella Riegel, Pa. Mrs. Julius Rosenwald, Il. Mrs. Charles Edward Russell, D. C. Mrs. Frederick Sanborn, Cal. Mrs. May Wright Sewall, Ind. Mrs. Austin Sperry, Cal. Mrs. Albert Steinfeld, Ariz. Mrs. Julius Stone, Ohio Mrs. David D. Terry, Ark. Mrs. Mary O. Therkelsen, Ore. Mrs. Robert Gibbes Thomas, S. . Miss Clars L. Thompson, Mo. Mrs. Shelley Tollhurst, Cal. Mrs. Samuel Untermyer, N. Y. Mrs. Richard Wainwright, D. O. Mrs. Hettie D. M. Wallis, Tex. Mrs. Thomas F. Walsh, D. C. Mrs. John Jay White, D. C. Mrs. Harvey W. Wiley, D. C. Mrs. S. B. M. Young, Mont.

Mrs. Lawrence Lewls, Pa. Miss Anne Martin, Nev.

--- page 3 ---
VOL. V., No. 56 Th Published by Woman Suffrge o and the oman's Party Lafayo W D. C. WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 31, 191

canette Rankin for Federal Amendment

EANETTE RANKIN, Congresswoman-elect J from Montana, supports the Susan B. Anthony amendment. In a recently published statement on why women should ask for the vote at Washington she says:

“The precedents of the establishment of negro suffrage, the protection of male suffrage generally, and the proposition of Filipino suffrage quite justify federal action upon the suffrage question. But still the conservatives protest (more and more weakly all the time, to be sure) that the required three-fourths of the states necessary to ratify a constitutional amendment have no ethical right to impose upon the remaining twelve states a franchise which they do not want, a condition which they resent.

“Upon an examination of the facts, however, it is readily seen that the federal way is the legitimate way, the logical and expedient way, in which the women of the United States may gain the right of suffrage; legitimate because the Constitution provides that constitutional amendments shall be valid upon a ratification of three-fourths of the states (and consequently any amendment to the Constitution, no matter what its specific function, is destined to impose the will of thirtysix states upon the remaining twelve); logical because the fact of suffrage has a direct bearing upon national affairs and should therefore be recognized nationally, and expedient because of the tremendous amount of time and energy and money that could be saved by it, and the almost overwhelming difficulties of state-wide campaigns that could be avoided. The national suffrage amendment means the exercise of a constitutional privilege which the framers of the Constitution designed to meet just such exigencies as are presented by the question of woman suffrage in the United States."

Colorado Social Reform

OCIAL reform measures relating to S women and children are a striking feature of legislation proposed for this session of the Assembly in Colorado, where women vote. A bill to provide minimum wages for women and for children of both sexes under 18 has been introduced by Repre-

Notes of the Week

sentative Crowley, of Denver. This bill, which is said to be the first of the Democratic party measures, provides for a commission of three chosen by the Governor to investigate conditions, fix wages, and supervise sanitary and moral conditions for child workers.

Another bill in the lower house proposes to forbid children under fourteen working in the beet fields and to limit to eight hours the work children may do on farms or in orchards. This is supplementary to the children's employment act passed some time ago. In the upper house a bill which is practically a mother's pension bill has been introduced by Senator Starkweather, of Denver, to provide for the care and assistance of women about to become mothers.

Women on Charitable Boards

Women's City Club of New York has sent a request to Governor Whitman that

more women be appointed to the boards of charitable institutions, especially institutions for women and children. This request is the result of the City Club's interest in the Strong investigation of last spring, when great inefficiency was disclosed in the management of many of New York State's institutions. The club calls attention to the fact that there is generally only one woman on the board of these homes and asylums and in a number of cases none. It points out that women are better fitted and have more time than men for giving proper advice and control in the care of the thousands of dependent women and children in New York State.

Girl Page in Oregon Legislature

N the Senate chamber in Oregon, a girl page I is running about carrying bills and making herself useful. She is Ruth Marion Jones, a senior in the high school in Salem, Oregon, where she specializes in the study of civics. She decided to be a page to learn about politics at first hand, and finds that practice takes all the dryness out of theory.

3

“She is the best page we have ever had," several of the older senators have declared about her.

Suffrage Movement in Great Britain

T a recent meeting of the annual Council of A Women of Great Britain and Ireland the following resolution was passed by a great majority:

“Since the experience of the past two years has proved that the British Nation at war needs the responsible help of women for the efficient conduct of its affairs no less than does the nation at peace, this National Council of Women of Great Britain and Ireland urges that any amendment or extension of the parliamentary franchise must provide for the inclusion of women voters, not as a measure of justice only, but in the vital interests of our nation, and its future well-being.”

The National Council of Women consists of the following affiliated societies: The Federation of University Women, the Association of Women Clerks and Secretaries, the Women's Farm and Garden Union, the National Organization of Girls' Clubs, the women's colleges of London, Cambridge and Oxford, the National Union of Teachers, the Women's Industrial Council, the nmational Union of Woman Suffrage Societies, etc.

Woman's Movement in Italy

DEPUTATION of Italian women recently A informed Signore Sacchi, member of the

Italian government, of a vote passed by all the feminist and suffrage associations of the country demanding from the government the abolishment of the legal necessity for a husband's authorization of his wife's acts, the admission of women to the profession of advocates, and the equalization of women with men in public employment. Signore Sacchi told the deputation that the decree abolishing martial authorization is soon to be issued and promised serious and immediate consideration of the other two questions. The more liberal attitude of the government toward women is considered to be due to the work they have done during the war.

--- page 4 ---
State Delegations Join the Picket Line at the White House

tt r f Virginia Delegation Leaving Headquarters for tee White House PRESIDENT the National Advisory Council of the Union; Mrs. G. von Horvath; Mrs. M. C. Dowell; Mrs. Josephine Justice; Miss WOMEN wal Bertha Sapowitz; Mrs. Eleanor Arrison; Miss Elizabeth Elder; Mrs. R. C. Swayze;, o LIBERTY and Miss Martha W. Moore, worker in . the Children's Aid Society of Pennsylvania. Miss Marie Ernst Kennedy, state chairman, and Miss Caroline Katsenstein, executive secretary of the Pennsylvania : Branch of the Union, arranged and led the Miss Alice Paul delegation. Coffee for the Picket Line on Picket Duty

ELEGATIONS from three states have come D this week to take their place in the picket guard stationed by the Congressional Union in front of the White House to show the President that the women of the country are waiting for him to act on the federal amendment before the end of the 64th Congress.

ONDAY was District of Columbia day as M it is each week. Pennsylvania day, Thursday the 24th, brought from that state an enthusiastic group of women eager to stand sentinel all day till nightfall. They were, however, divided into squads that served in regular turns until four o'clock, when the whole long line was stretched across the front of the White House from gate to gate, reiterating with their banners the question that keeps the Congressional Union standing guard, “Mr. President, how long must women wait for liberty?" A dark-blue limousine turned in through the gates and the President looked smilingly down the sentinel line. He knows now that Pennsylvania women are asking why he refuses support to a constitutional question whose justice he has admitted.

Among the women in the delegation were Miss Martha Hovendon, daughter of the famous artist; Mrs. Leonard Bartlett; Mrs. John M. Mc- Lean; Mrs. W. C. Uhl; Miss Ella Riegel, of

New York delegation on January 26 carried on their banners phrases from President Wilson's book, “The New Freedom."

“Liberty is the fundamental demand of the human spirit." “We are interested in the United States, politically speaking, in nothing but human liberty."

Twenty-four women came down from New York to join the picket line on one of the coldest and most blustering days of the year. They stood staunchly on guard, however, windwhipped but serene, calling the President's own words to his attention when he came in late in the afternoon.

Matinee crowds, motor-cars of tea-going ladies, Congressmen, newspaper men, government clerks hurrying home, men with the badges of some visiting delegation, sightseers on holiday from every nook and corner of the country—the composite Washington crowd never streamed more steadily down Pennsylvania Avenue past the White House than on that afternoon. Every one of these passers-by was plainly struck by the dignified line against the background of, wintry gardens and white facade. Many stopped to speak, bits of discussion reached the sentinels ears, and the sentinels' eyes were frequently amused by seeing engrossed gazers falling into the little wickets that enclose the Pennsylvania

Avenue trees and prove to be stumbling-blocks for people who try to mask lively interest in the picket line with pretended indifference and side-long glances.

In the delegation were Mrs. George Elmer Adams, Miss Anna Constable, Mrs. Philip Comstock, Mrs. Edmund Kelly, Mrs. Walter B. Thompson, Mrs. Calvin Tompkins, Miss Marion Burritt, Mrs. Minnie Friedmann, Miss Winona Marlin, Mrs. J. E. Lambie, and Mrs. Charles W. Farnham. Miss Alice Carpenter, chairman of the New York City Committee of the Union, made the arrangements and conducted the delegation.

V IRGINIA day, Saturday, brought a group of delegates who had made a long over-night journey by boat and train to prove that the women of this most conservative state are taking their part in the movement for federal suffrage. Mrs. Sophic Meredith, state chairman of Virginia, arranged the delegation, in which were Mrs. Bertha Mulhall, Mrs. Rose Walker, Miss J. S. Jennings, Mrs. L. C. Flanigan, Mrs. Maude H. Hudson, Mrs. Walter J. Adams, Mrs. Thomas, Mrs. Merrifield, Mrs. Albertson, Mrs. Moncure, Miss Ada Rhodes, Mrs. J. N. Steed.

--- page 5 ---
:

HE interest and attention the picketing has T aroused in Congress increases rather than decreases with the weeks. The first remarks of Representative Emerson, of Ohio, against it in the House brought immediate response in the form of protests to Representatives Timberlake and Hilliard, of Colorado, from their women constituents. On January 22 there was read in the House this telegram from the Woman's Party of Colorado

“Colorado Springs, Colo., “January 19, 1917.

“Hon. Charles B. Timberlake, “House of Representatives, Washington, D. C. “Press report today Congressman Emerson as protesting in House against silent picketing by Congressional Union. State Committee of National Woman's Party of Colorado upholds silent picketing by Union as necessary protest against undemocratic blocking of federal suffrage amendment President and party in power. Please have this protest read into Congressional Record.

Bertha Fowler,

“Bertha Fowler, “State chairman.

“State chairman. On the following day Mr. Hilliard received a telegram with a similar protest from the district committee of the National Woman's Party of Denver, signed by Dr. Margaret Long, district chairman, and treasurer of the National Woman's Party.

NE of the most portentous things about O the sentinel line at the White House is that it is composed very largely of women voters. The backbone of the line that stands turn and turn about day after day consists of women who have come to the national headquarters of the Congressional Union from the voting states to help demonstrate that the political power of Western women is behind the push for the federal amendment. From Chicago has come Miss Alice Henkle, a prominent member of the Illinois branch of the Woman's Party; from Kansas, Miss Iris Calderhead, secretary of the Woman's Party of that state; from Montana, Miss Hazel Hunkins, a member of the Montana executive committee of the Woman's Party. Nevada has been represented on the line by Miss Anne Martin, President of the Nevada Woman's Civic League, as well as national chairman of the Woman's Party; California by Miss Maud Younger, Miss Vivian Pierce, Mrs. Bessie Papandre, Miss Mildred Gilbert and Miss Berta Crone. Mrs. Bertram Sippy, state chairman of the Illinois branch, has telegraphed that she also will shortly come to Washington to join the line. Since the enfranchisement of North Dakota women, Miss Beulah Amidon, of Fargo, has sent

District of Columbia Day on the Picket Line Sentinels on Duty in the Rain

5

word that she will hasten to Washington to represent her state in front of the White House.

The make-up of the picket line in general has been particularly interesting this week. The Congressional circle has been represented almost daily by Mrs. William Kent, wife of Representative Kent from California, and by Miss Elsie Hill and Mrs. Helena Hill Weed, daughters of Congressman Hill of Connecticut. Mrs. John M. Nelson, a this week's recruit who has stood on guard many hours, is the wife of Representative Nelson, of Wisconsin. Miss Iris Calderhead, who has come to Washington to help in the picketing between campaigning in Oklahoma and her next organization work in New Jersey, is a daughter of former Representative Calderhead, of Kansas.

ANY are the amusing and touching inci- M dents that the pickets relate as they gather round the fire at the Little White House, during the intervals of relief from duty. Kindhearted old gentlemen, women of all ages who have never known the thrilling warmth that simply working for a great cause brings with it, have offered the pickets every variety of physical comfort.

--- page 6 ---
One young volunteer picket who had gone on duty in a light-weight coat and low shoes was amazed when a woman in a closed limosine drew up to the curb and forced upon her a fur coat and her own gaiters. She held the girl's banner while the gaiters were buttoned on, and volunteered to organize a committee made up of the older women who would gather together warmer clothing for the pickets such as their unusual occupation made necessary. One of the gifts that has been most appreciated is a great fur coat made of muskrat skins from Mrs. Hilles farm which she sent on behalf of the Delaware branch of the Union. The Virginia and Pennsylvania branches sent thick gloves, spats and slickers for rainy days.

HE Saturday afternoon committee meetings T of the District of Columbia branch of the Congressional Union at National Headquarters in Lafayette Square have turned into experience meetings since the picketing started. The pickets have recounted their impressions and their enthusiasms, and the enthusiasm is so dominant that many of the new recruits for the line are women who have come to these meetings and caught the spirit. On January 19th, Miss Anne Martin spoke as a voter as well as a picketer.

“The justice of suffrage is acknowledged," she said. “The idea we now have to overcome is that there is no injustice in women's having to struggle for suffrage for an indefinite time. We must show people that justice delayed is justice denied; that women should not have to wait two years more, or four years, or any number of years for justice. We must use a new kind of demonstration in order to express this idea. To go on having the same kind of demonstrations would make people feel that suffragists expected to go on having them forever. Our aim is to symbolize, to dramatize for the whole country the women's demand for immediate enfranchisement, and to throw upon the President the responsibility for further delay."

Women Understand

HE picketing of the White House grounds by a committee of the New York Congressional Union for Woman Suffrage, in the hope of inducing the President to commit himself to their cause, apparently worries some of the President's newspaper friends much more than it does the President himself. When the committee started to Washington, the New York World insisted that its mission was an example of feminine lack of knowledge and logic.

In a solemn way it pointed out that the President has no more to do with the amendment of the constitution than the chief justice or the marshall of the District of Columbia. He can neither assent nor dissent. If two-thirds of the members of both houses of Congress see fit to submit an amendment to the states, the President is not consulted at any stage of the proceedings.

———————

Pennsylvania Day at the White House Miss Caroline Katzenstein, heading the line at the gate

Press Views on the Picketing

If the legislatures of three-fourths of the states ratify the amendment, the secretary of state has only the ministerial duty of proclaiming the fact. All of which indicates that the women are bardly as illogical as is the World. All that it says on the subject of a constitutional amendment applies with almost exactly equal force to any legislation proposed in or passed by Congress. In theory the President has no more to do with initiating such legislation than he has, according to the World, with initiating constitutional amendments. In practice, however, particularly under the present administration, the President does initiate and Congress has been merely recording the President's will. Examples are too numerous to recite in full, but the canal tolls furnmish a typical one, wherein Congress not only obeyed the President's mandate, but did so by repudiating its former action and by going directly counter to a pledge made in the national platform of the dominant party. The women understand perfectly the way things are done at Washington.—Seattle Post-Intelligencer, Jan. 14.

On January 26th, Mrs. Richard Wainwright, wife of Rear Admiral Wainwright, told a bis group of women what picketing outside the White House meant to her. “While I was standing there," she said, “the thought came to me that we were in very much the same position as is a person who is locked out of her own home. You know how it feels to go to the theater and get home late without a key and find the door locked and the other members of the family asleep. You ring the bell, you whistle, you knock, you call. You stand outside, while inside are the servants who need your direction, the children who need your care, the man of the house who can't get along without you. Finally you rouse the neighbors and they help you to wake your family.

“We women are shut out from the government in which we have a right to participate. So we stand at the door of the White House to ask help from the President, who represents to us the gates of the nation just now. We stand there that we women who bear half the burdens of this government should have that door opened for us and that we should come in.

“Imitation is the sincerest flattery, and I think the President of the United States is imitating us. He goes down to the Capitol—he calls it camping, but it seems to me that he is picketing. I also saw in my paper that Senator Sherman, being quite vexed at this innovation of the President's, says that the Senators will come up and camp for three days a week at the White House. We seem to be in good company."

LANS are proceeding for the demonstration p in which the picketing will culminate on March sth. At twelve o'clock on that day President Wilson will take the oath of office at the Capitol. Mrs. Robert Baker is arranging for a great delegation of voting women, supported by non-voters, to meet him after the oath has been taken to protest against his first term's having gone out without action on the federal amendment and to ask that he begin his new term by initiating legislation which will bring about the passage of the measure.

Woman Suffrage and the President

HE women suffragists of this country, some T of whom have been pleading for over half a century, do not intend losing the advantage they gained when they forced from Mr. Wilson's lips the admission that their cause is just. Every time he leaves the White House he will be confronted by a banner inscribed with the women's plea for votes, and if this fails, other methods will be employed to keep the principle of woman suffrage fresh in the mind of the chief executive.— Toledo, Ohio, Times, January 13.

Watchful Waiting OMAN suffrage is lending a compliment- W ary indorsement to watchful waiting that fully warrants President Wilson in taking off his hat to the sentries in courteous salutation. —W ashington, D. C., Star, Janwary 20.

--- page 7 ---
Presidential Suffrage Won in North Dakota

National Conventions of the Congressional Union and the Woman's Party

HE passage of the presidential suffrage bill T in North Dakota 23 is a splendid new proof of the rising tide of suffrage and a great gain in the campaign for the Susan B. Anthony amendment. On January 24, Mrs. Elizabeth D. O'Neil, state chairman of the North Dakota branch of the Congressional Union, telegraphed to Miss Alice Paul at headquarters

“Presidential and municipal suffrage bill has been signed by the Governor. North Dakota women this small victory may contribute to the successful passage of the federal amendment."

The North Dakota suffrage bill, framed like the Illinois suffrage bill, was introduced in the legislature about two weeks ago, was passed by both houses at once and was the first bill that Governor Frazier signed. Partial suffrage will go into effect on July 1 of this year. Next November North Dakota women will vote for most county and municipal officers. And in 1920 they will vote for president of the United States.

The victory in North Dakota raises the number of states in which women affect national policies by voting for president to the goodly number of thirteen. There are about 125,000 women in North Dakota who from now on possess a national power that all parties must take into consideration. Women will now vote for five more members of the electoral college. Hereafter four and a quarter million of enfranchised women will take their part in deciding ninety-six electoral votes—nearly one-fifth of the whole electoral college of 531 members. One-third of the Senate and one-sixth of the House now come from states in which women vote.

LANS are swinging rapidly forward for the p conventions of the Congressional Union and the Woman's Party to meet in Washington during inauguration week. The following calls have been sent out by the committees of the two organizations.

Call to the Second National Convention of the Congressional Union for Woman Suffrage

HE second national convention of the Congressional Union for Woman Suffrage will be held at the national headquarters in Washington, March 1, 2, 3 and 4, 1917. “Since we last met in convention the national administration and Congress have been made aware as never before of the political power behind the demand for suffrage. Great strides have been made in the mobilization of women voters. A Woman's Party has been formed to

RS. ELIZABETH DARROW O'NEIL, of M Fargo, district chairman of the North Dakota branch of the Congressional Union, was one of the twenty prominent women of the state in

Mrs. Elizabeth Darrow O'Neil Congressional Union Chairman in North Dakota and Leader in the Campaign Which Won Presidential Suffrage

utilize their political strength. The national conventions of all parties have recognized the principle of suffrage, and three parties have pledged their support to suffrage by federal action. A presidential candidate of one of the two dominant parties has declared for the national suffrage amendment. Voting women, through the Woman's Party election campaign, have made the political freedom of women a national issue which all political parties must now face.

“We ask you to meet with us at the beginning of the new administration to plan how we may best use this strategic situation so that suffrage shall dominate all other issues and the long struggle for woman's freedom be brought to an end.

“Alice Paul, N. J., Chairman Lucy Burns, N. Y., Vice-Chairman Mabel Vernon, Nev., Secretary : Alva E. Belmont, N. Y. Harriot Stanton Blatch, Kans.

Governor Frazier's office when the suffrage bill was signed. She and her sister, Mrs. Mary Darrow Weible, were leaders in the campaign for the bill's passage. These two women know from most intimate experience the twenty-four-year fight for state suffrage now partially won. They are daughters of the late Mrs. Clara Louise Darrow, the pioneer worker for suffrage in North Dakota. Mrs. Darrow gave her time, her money and her life to the movement for those years.

The first time the suffrage amendment came up, about twenty-five years ago, it passed the House, but while the Senate was considering it, the House changed its mind, and when it was returned from the Senate after much discussion, all mention of the bill was wiped out of the records, as though it were a disgrace to the state. In 1914 occurred the first suffrage referendum, which measure failed to pass.

It was after this unsuccessful referendum that the notable suffrage leaders of the state, Mrs. O'Neil, Mrs. Charles Amidon, wife of Judge Amidon and intimate friend of Mrs. Clara Louise Darrow, and her daughter, Miss Beulah Amidon, now national organizer for the Congressional Union, decided to turn their energies to federal suffrage. A branch of the Union was organized with the help of Miss Vivian Pierce, national organizer for the Union, and the North Dakota women have since proved a strong group in the campaign for the national amendment. In the case of this state suffrage bill they have lent their help because of the extraordinarily favorable influences behind it and the added power it will give them as partial voters to work for full federal suffrage.

Eunice Dana Brannan, N. Y. Matilda Hall Gardner, D. C. Edith Houghton Hooker, Md. Elizabeth T. Kent, Cal. Dora Lewis, Pa. Anne Martin, Nev."

Call to the Second National Convention of the National Woman's Party HE officers of the National Woman's Party, T in accordance with the authority given them by the national convention when the party was organized in Chicago last June, issue this call to a convention to be held in Washington, D. C., on March 1, 2, 3 and 4, at the same time and place as the convention of the Congressional Union for Woman Suffrage.

“The National Woman's Party was organized for the sole purpose of securing the national enfranchisement of women through amendment to the United States Constitution.

--- page 8 ---
“At a conference in Colorado Springs in August, it was decided to use our political power against that party which having the power to aid has instead persistently opposed the national suffrage amendment. “A vigorous campaign was thereupon conducted in the twelve suffrage states with the result that the woman voter has become a recognized power in national elections, and national suffrage has become an issue of immediate importance.

“This convention is called to discuss immediate plans and the policy to be adopted that the national eranchisement of women may be speedily obtained.

“All members of the Woman's Party are urged to meet at this time to determine what that policy shall be.

“Anne Martin, Nev., Chairman Phoebe Hearst, Cal., Vice-Chairman Mabel Vernon, Nev., Secretary Margaret Long, Colo., Treasurer Alice Paul, N. J., ex-officio"

Congressional Union call makes the following announcement of proposed amendments to the constitution which will be offered at the convention In Article 1, insert the words “National Woman's Party" in of the words “Congressional Union for Woman Suffrage." In Article IIl insert the words “Woman's Party" in place of the word “Union." In Article IV insert the words “Woman's in place of the words “Congressional nion."

In Article VI insert the words “Woman's Party" in place of the word “Union," and insert the word “secure" in place of the word “appoint" in lines 2 and 3. In Article VII insert a comma in place of a period after the word “congress" in line 2, and add the words “consisting of a president, two vice-presidents, secretary, treasurer, chairman of executive committee, and five directors," after the word “congress." In lines 2 and 3 strike out the sentence: “The chairman of the executive committee shall be chosen by the members of the committee."

In line 6 insert the words, “Woman's Party" in place of the word “Union." In Article VIIl insert the words “Woman's Party" in place of the word “Union." In Article IX insert the words “Woman's Party" in place of the words “Congressional Union" in lines 1 and 3. In Article X insert the words “Woman's in place of the words “Congressional nion."

Notice is given of these amendments in accordance with Article XI of the national constitution, reading

“This constitution may be amended by a majority vote at any convention of the association, provided that such amendment shall have been specified in the call for the meeting."

HESE proposed amendments bring up one T of the most important questions which will come, before the conventions to settle;—that is the recommendation which has been made by the committees of the Congressional Union and of the Woman's Party that the two organizations be merged into one. In explanation of the proposed amalgamation, Miss Anne Martin, national chairman of the

Woman's Party, has issued the following statement:

“The amalgamation of the Congressional Union for Woman Suffrage and the National Woman's is most desirable. “There is no reason why the two organizations should not be combined into one, and there is every reason why they should be. Both organizations are working by political methods exclusively for the woman suffrage amend-

Miss Anne Martin. Chairman of National Woman's Party, Who Will Preside at Woman's Party Convention

Miss Anne Martin. Chairman of National Woman's Party, Who Will Preside at Woman's Party Convention

ment. Amalgamating the two groups will eliminate possible duplication of work or divergence of method, and will increase efficiency through the fact that there will be only one national executive committee where there are now two, one set of officers, one treasury, and by the fact that there will be absolute concentration of the power of the two combined organizations upon the work in Congress for the national suffrage amendment."

Miss Alice Paul, chairman of the National Executive Committee of the Union, has also issued a statement on the suggested amalgamation.

“The executive committee of the Congressional Union for Woman Suffrage has recommended the merging of the Union and the National Woman's Party into one organization to be known as the National Woman's Party, so that voters and non-voters may together make a united campaign for the political freedom of American women.

“In deciding whether to retain the Congressional Union or the Woman's Party as the final organization in the merging of the two, it seemed

wisest to recommend retaining the Woman's Party. The Woman's Party, made up of women voters pledged to use their political power to secure the enfranchisement of all American women has already out-grown in importance its the Congressional Union. The oman's Party is the most effective group in the suffrage world today, because it represents organized political Though created only last June, its membership is now greater than that of the Congressional Union in the unenfranchised states.

“The Congressional Union has, in the four years of its existence, helped to make the federal suffrage amendment an issue of national political importance in this country. By now all its resources to the support of the National Woman's Party it will, we believe, create an organization of such financial and political power that the opposition to the passage of the national suffrage amendment cannot much longer continue."

HE program opens with a reception for the T members of both organizations at nine o'clock on Thursday evening, March first. The reception will be given by the District of Columbia branch of the Union and the chairman of the committee on arrangements is Mrs. George Odell. The second day, Friday, March 2, will be devoted to business sessions in the morning, afternoon and evening. Saturday morning and afternoon will also be given to business sessions.

Saturday evening, March 3, at seven-thirty o'clock a dinner will be given at Headquarters. Tickets at $2.00 a person may be obtained at Headquarters from Mrs. William Kent, chairman of committee on arrangements.

The convention will close with a great demonstration on the part of voting women, expressive of their determination that the next administration shall not come to a close without the amendment having been passed. The demonstration, which will take the form of a deputation to the White House, will be participated in by the unmenfranchised women as well as by voters.

Mrs. Helena Hill Weed, Lafayette Square, Washington, D. C., is credentials chairman for the Congressional Union. According to Article X of the constitution: “Conventions may be attended by all members of the organization but the voting members shall be one delegate for each fifty women members in any branch for whom the twenty-five-cent dues have been paid. All “delegates of the Congressional Union shall be women."

The credentials chairman for the Woman's Party is Mrs. George Odell, Lafayette Square, Washington, D. C. Branches of the Woman's Party will be entitled to one delegate for every fifty members. All railroads are offering reduced rates to Washington for inauguration week, and information about them can be secured at any local railroad office.

Miss Edith Goode, Lafayette Square, Washington, D. C., hospitality chairman, will give the addresses of hotels and boarding-houses to those who want them. An effort will be made to arrange for free hospitality for delegates desiring it.

--- page 9 ---
Oklahoma Women Organize for the Federal Amendment

BRANCH of the Congressional Union has A been formed i Oklahoma this month, making with the new South Dakota branch thirty-eight state branches supporting the work at Washington for the federal amendment. In 1910 an Oklahoma referendum defeated the first suffrage bill that came up in that state. Since that time organization for the enfranchisement of women has been practically non-existent, because of discouragement at the difficulty of the state method. The appeal to Oklahoma women to add their strength to the movement for federal action, however, roused the greatest enthusiasm and cooperation that any cause has obtained among women in the history of the state. They had felt the importance of the question and needed only the impulse to get together for organization.

Miss Iris Calderhead, national organizer for the Congressional Union, spent a month in Oklahoma before the organization conference explaining the Congressional Union's policy at clubs and meetings of many kinds. Miss Margaret Fay Whittemore, another national organizer, came to Oklahoma City a week before the convention as speaker. Miss Calderhead was also helped by Mrs. Oatman-Blachly, who has recently become a resident of Oklahoma and whose husband is professor in the State University. Mrs. Oatman- Blachly has a brilliant record as campaigner in Ohio, Michigan, New York and New Jersey. She gave a series of suffrage talks before the conference, and preached a suffrage sermon in the First Unitarian Church.

The call to the organization convention was sent out by a sroup of representative women; Mrs. C. O. Cole, acting president of the Woman's Council for civic reform; Mrs. Fred Sutton, known throughout the state for her hospitality at the Oklahoma Building of the Panama Pacific Exposition; Mrs. John Frederickson; Mrs. E. T. Bynum; Mrs. A. J. Rigsby; Mrs. Frank Gault; Mrs. Edith Barrows Russell and Mrs. F. M. archdeacon.

HE finance committee of the Congressional T Union has been reorganized under the chairmanship of Miss Alice Carpenter of New York. Mrs. John W. Brannan of New York, is treasurer, and Miss Doris Stevens of New York, secretary. The headquarter of the department will be in New York City.

Miss Carpenter, who was vice-chairman of the committee during the past year, took the chairmanship as successor to Mrs. Lawrence Lewis of Pennsylvania, who has gone to China for a visit of some months. During the last year all branches of the Union

HE convention met on January 18 at a lunchcon at the Skirvin Hotel, Oklahoma City, two hundred women from all over the state having answered the call. Mrs. S. Ditzell was conference chairman, and Mrs. C. N. Barney

Mrs. C. N. Barney Organization Chairman of Oklohoma Conference

chairman of the committee on arrangements. Colonel A. N. Leecraft, secretary of the state board of affairs, represented Governor Williams in welcoming the women of the state. He pointed

Financing the Federal Campaign

financed their own activities except during the election campaign, and nearly all of them contributed most generously to the national headquarters cither through individual members or through the branch treasuries. The total amount which passed through the national treasury in 1916 was $111,423.00. Some of the largest contributions to this were made by Mrs. O. H. P. Belmont of New York, Mrs. H. O. Havemeyer of New York, Mrs. Elon Hooker of New York, Miss Mary Burnham of Pennsylvania, Mrs. Charles Boughton Wood of Connecticut, Mrs. Julius Rosenwald of Illinois, Mrs. Phocbe

out that woman suffrage has become a political as well as a moral question, now that it is being legislated upon, and spoke of the political power of women as one of the newest and most important factors of American lif. He said that the non-partisanship of the women voters was an argument for suffrage, and that the women of the West demonstrated non-partisanship in the last election, when “they cast the vote that was heard round the world, striking terror into the hearts of all parties."

Dr. J. E. Street, commissioner of public properties, then made an address of welcome on the part of the city, and the Reverend W. T. B. Urch, who is keenly interested in suffrage in connection with a new Community House for social work, spoke on suffrage in its relation to community life. Mrs. G. W. England, formerly associated with the Woman's Political Union in New York City, clearly and entertainingly discussed “Old Suffrage and New," showing the economy and efficiency of the federal amendment road.

Miss Margaret Whittemore, principal speaker of the conference, outlined the development of the Congressional Union policy from the sixty years of unconcentrated propoganda work in this country and showed exactly at what it is aiming. Miss Calderhead, a voter in Kansas and secretary of the Woman's Party in that state, pointed out the political power of the women who already vote and what the women of the West can do to fight for the liberation of the women of the rest of the country and especially for the women of the interest-ridden industrial centers of the East.

HE convention then adopted the constitu- T tion for the state branch of the Congressional Union and elected the following officers : Mrs. G. W. England of Oklahoma City, state chairman; Mrs. E. Z. Wallower of Oklahoma, first vice-chairman; Mrs. Miriam Oatman-Blachly of Norman, second vice-chairman; Mrs. L. B. Nice of Norman, third vice-chairman; Mrs. A. J. Rigsby of Oklahoma City, secretary; and Mrs. Phillip Flaxman of Oklahoma City, treasurer.

Hearst of California, Mrs. William Crocker of California, Mrs. William Kent of California, Mr. James Couzens of Michigan, Mrs. Thomas Chadbourne of New York, Mrs. Avery Coonley of Illinois, Mr. John Milholland of New York, Miss Maric Ernst Kennedy of Pennsylvania, and Mrs. S. B. M. Young of Montana.

The new committee is now at work on the details of next year's budget, which will be presented to the convention in March. Efforts will be made to start with a good fund, and the great strength gained by the reorganization of this committee promises exceedingly well for the power of the Union.

--- page 10 ---
AT THE TENSHUN THE PRESIDENT o in 0 ARMS —Dullas, Tex., News, January 12

10

Suffragists and Patient Waiting

ATIENT waiting has other applications P than that of Uncle Sam's sitting with folded hands while Mexico works out its own destiny. The policy that has been so effective in that case may accomplish equal results in other fields. The silent sentinels who picket the White House, if they can be as patient as the President has been with Mexico, may score a victory. It may be a question of taste as to whether the Congressional Union has adopted proper or the best means for advancing its cause; but let no one underestimate the effect. Advertising pays, and if these women will undertake to hold their banners in silence before the White House and the entrance of the Capitol, it will have a pronounced effect. The mistake made by the English suffragists was in pursuing a course that led to violence. Silent, passive resistance is far more effective than force.

Comments of the Press

Criticism has been made that the women are as unfair and as absurd in adopting this course of procedure as would be the Socialists, Prohibitionists, manufacturers, trainmen, general managers, or other people with a grievance who should adopt a similar policy. One point, however, should be kept in mind. The law provides no means by which the women can express themselves in legislation. The various classes of men have the franchise. They speak to public officials as masters to agents. It is within their power to combine their political strength with kindred interests. But women have no political power, and hence must attain their end through whatever personal means prove effective. The I. W. W. people are inexcusable in resorting to violence in the hope of controlling the economic situation, because they have the ballot. If they be in a minority, force will not avail; if they be in a majority, force will not be necessary. But women, lacking the ballot, must act

The Mildly Militant Silent Sentinels

through those who have it; hence, they are morally free to resort to whatever means is most conducive to their end—The Public, Jan. 19. Putting the White House on the Map

HERE have not been as many visitors within T a given time to the White House grounds for years as there have been since the purple, white and gold bannmers in the hands of the Congressional Union women began to attract the crowds this week.—Chicago Evening Post, Januory 18. Inauguration Attractions

MONG the other interesting sights of A inauguration day in Washington will be the picket fence that the Congressional Union for Woman Suffrage proposes to place around the White House.—Indianapolis News, January 13.

--- page 11 ---
Financial Repo Chairman Finance Committ Miss Alice Carpenter Treasurer: Miss Joy L. Webst Assistant Treasurer: Miss Gertrude Bank of Deposit: American Secu Trust Co., Washington, D. Contributions toward $250,0 for Securing the Passag the Federal Suffrage Amendment List of Contributions from January through January 24, 1917 Contributions made to National Headquarters Mrs. L. A. Altona....... 5.00 Miss Emma G. Morris... 5.00 Mrs. Florence. Morris Mrs. Lawrence Lewis... 10.00 Mrs. H. O. Havemeyer.... 200.00 Miss Anna M. Dobbin... 1.00 Mrs. James M. Young... 10.00 Mrs. Gunhild Nelson Johnson City, Tennessee Branch of Congressional Mrs. Oliver H. P. Belmont 5,200.00 Mr. George H. Simmons. 5.00 Delaware Branch of Congressional Union....... 100.00 Miss Sheldon Jackson.... 5.00 Miss Maggic M. Flynn.. 1.00 Asoymons.... 1.00 Through the Pennsylvania Branch Mrs. Eleanor Arrison (on behalf of Frankford Branchy. 15.00 Mrs. Katherine G. Halli- Mrs. Loren Johnson..... 75 Mr. R. Don Laws....... 1.00 Mrs. Anna I. La Monte.. 5.00 Mrs. G. Brown Miller... 25.00 Mrs. Bona V. Chave.... 3.00 Mrs. S. B. M. Young... 35.00 Mr. William Kent........ 500.00 Miss S. Ada Flatman... 100.00 Mrs. Almira Sweeten... 5.25 Mrs. E. M. Crosthwaite. 2.00 Mrs. F. R. Hazard..... 250.00 Through Miss Stevens Mr. Frank P. Walsh... 50.00 Through Mrs. Kent's Committee Mrs. John Jay White.. 15.00 Miss Mary A. Burnham 25.00 Miss Helen Munroe... 25.00 Memberships ......... 21.50 1.20 6,957.70 Previously acknowledged

National Headquarters Receipts Total collected by National Headquarters through January 24, 1917

Contributions made to Pennsylvania Headquarters: Dr. Albert Brubaker..... 10.00 Mrs. Samuel Meek...... 2.00 1.00 Mrs. Cormegeys ....... 5.00 Mrs. Fred Delsheimer... 5.00 Miss Lucy Duhring...... 1.00 Dr. 1 . 5.00 Mrs. Daniel Garber..... 3.00 Miss Eugenia Gregg.... 3.00 Mis. B . 1.00 Miss Martha Davis...... 2.00 Dr. Frances Van Gasken.. 5.00 Mrs. Louis Wittenberg.. 5.00 Mrs. Charles S. Hirsch.. 5.00 Mrs. Guido Von Horvath 5.00 Mrs. Richard J. Beamish 5.00 Miss Ella Riegel........ 107.40 Miss Sophie Dulles..... 5.00 Mrs. Clara M. Vogt..... 5.00 Mrs. Thomas Wilson, Jr. 2.00 Mrs. Sarah C. Greenough 20.00 Miss Julia V. Elder..... 50.00 Dr. Charlotte Abbey.... 1.00 Mrs. Charles Klauder.... 5.00 Miss Mary A. Burnham. 200.00 ins J.... 5.00 Mrs. T. Archer Rulon... 5.00 Mrs. Edwin C. Grice... 10.00 Mrs. R. A. Fowler...... 5.00 Miss Caroline C. Hoffman 10.75 Mrs. Edward Biddle..... 5.00 Dr. Cornelia Kabn...... 3.00 Mrs. F. S. McCann......... 1.00 Mrs. William Albert Mrs. Stanley V. Masth 1.00 Mrs. L. C. Williams..... 1.00 Mrs. Leah Cobb Marion. 1.00 Mrs. William Easby.... 1.00 Miss M. B. Reinhardt... 1.00 Mrs. Sylvia F. Hagan... 5.00 Mrs. Edith W. Niemeyer. 18.50 Mrs. Henry Justice...... 15.00 Mrs. Charlotte W. Pierce 5.00 Mrs. Marcus Brock..... 6.00 Mrs. Sara Bard Field... 1.00 Mrs. Lawrence Lewis.... 80.00 Mrs. Joseph Harrison... 1.00 Mrs. J. B. Hammer..... 1.00 Mrs. Harry Lowenburg.. 5.00 Mrs. L. M. B. Mitchell. 10.00 Mrs. Emma B. Allebach.. 5.00 Mr. W. Ernst Kennedy. 25.00 Mrs. Eleanor B. Arrison. 5.00 Miss Ethel G. Pindar.... 1.00 Mrs. S. D. Benoliel..... 5.00 Miss Harriet W. Dulles. 35.00 Miss M. E. Kennedy.... 20.00 Mrs. William Groben.... 5.00 Miss M. Florence Penne- Mrs. William M. Barnes. 5.00 Mrs. Eleanor G. Stradling 5.00 Mrs. Perit Dulles....... 5.00 Miss Mary McConnell.. 1.00 Mrs. J. D. Westervelt... 1.00 hhn 1.00 Mrs. D. H. Bradley..... 1.00 1.00 Miss Elizabeth Kennedy. 1.50 Miss Elizabeth Van Meller 15 Oak Lane Equal Franchise o 25.00 Mrs. Pope Yeatman..... 25.00

11

Contributions made to Massachusetts Headquarters

Mrs. Gertrude B. Newell 5.00 Mrs. Oliver H. Hasbrouck 20.00 Mrs. Thomas H. Gray, Jr. 4.00 Mrs. A. G. Hollingsworth 5.00 Mrs. Janet Bearse...... 30.00 Miss Jessie Sweatt..... 2.00 Miss Grace Henshaw... 41.00 Miss Etta Paddleford... 10.00 Miss Susan Wilcox..... 6.00 Miss Mary Ware Allen.. 6.00 Miss Priscilla Whiton... 1.00 Miss Katharine A. Morey 4.00 Mrs. Agnes H. Morey... 4.00 Mr. W. G. Morey....... 4.00 Miss Marion Sayword... 50 Miss Elizabeth Marot., 1.00 Miss Anna Murdock... 1.00 Mrs. Evelyn Peverly Coe. 1.00 Mrs. E. C. Jeffrey....... 2.00 Mrs. Janetta S. Reed.... 2.00 Mrs Edward Lanning... 1.00 Mrs. Helen B. Gilman... 2.00 Mr. Alvan Fuller....... 100.00

Contributions made to New Jersey Headquarters

Mrs. William B. Pinkham 4.00 Mrs. William V. King... 75.00 Mrs. J. A. Lefferts...... 1.00 Miss Minnie D. Abbott.. 5.00 Mr. J. A. H. Hopkins... 25.00 Miss Margaret Boyle... 3.00 Mrs. Howard P. Boyle. 4.00 Mr. Peyton Boyle...... 10.00 Mrs. F. W. Iredell...... 1.00 Mrs. Abram J. Rose..... 18.50 Miss Cornelia Rose.... 1.00 Mrs. R. M. Laird....... 8.00 Miss Alice Gardner...... 1.00 Mrs. F. H. Keane....... 4.00 Landis Township Branch 2.00 Mis ES 1.00 7.25 1,275.30 Previously acknowledged in THE SUrFRAGIST.... 19,962.85

Branch Receipts: Total collecte d by the Branches through Janu-

1222 Walnut St. "Stols without Extravagancs" Philidelphis

Suffragists should try the Unique Blouse Shop 1322 Stevens Building Chicago

--- page 12 ---
12

5,000 New Subscribers Circulation Manager: Miss Elizabeth Smith Assistant Circulation Manager: Miss Frances Pepper dembers Who Have Secured New Subscribers for "The Suffragist"

(n this column we list the subscriptions sent in each week by our members. This is only o part of the total number of mew subscriptions received.) January 7th Through January 13th

Miss Vida Milholland.................. 1 . 4 New Jersey Branch, Congressional Union.. Mrs. Joseph Griswold Deane........... 1 h 1 Miss Anna P..Thomas............... 1 Mrs. Robert Adamson.................. 2 Mrs. Mary E. Brown.............. 2 1 Mrs. Mabel T. La Rue........ 1 1 1 Mr. John E. Milholland............... 9 Miss Mary Gertrude Fendall.......... 1 Miss Nettie A. Blasing.......... 2

30 Previously acknowledged in Tae Sur-

Total through January 13th secured by

The Cambridge 1828-30 Colwmbin Rond washington, 3. . REDUCING FLESH A SPECIALTY First-class accommodations for outof-town patients. Phone Col. 1027

Under the direction of an expert DIETE- TIAN. TRAINED MASSE USE in charge of baths, oil rubs, etc.

WEST END TRUST CoOMPANY

Receives Deposits Acts as Executor, Administrator Guardian, Trustee, Agent Sells Foreign Exchange, Travelers' Letters of Credit, Express Checks Maintains an Up-to-date Safe Deposit Department and a Storage Department for trunks and packages Manages Real Estate, Collects Rents etc. Lends Money on Approved Collateral Security

Public Principles Law aul Inst Wasnfhgtion. D.C. Mo A

CHURCH ENVELOPES Of Every Variety JOSEPH COMPANY 1632 Meadow St. Philadelphia, Pa

CHURCH ENVELOPES Of Every Variety JOSEPH COMPANY 1632 Meadow St. Philadelphia, Pa

Denver, Colo. A Store where no transaction is complete until the customer is satisfied.

Exclusively for Women Then why not stay at Hotel Rutledgte Lexington Ave. and 30th St. New York Rooms from $1.00 daily Room with full board from $12.00 to $18.00 per week. All outside rooms

SOCIETY STATIONERY E. MORRISON PAPER CO. 009 Pennsylvania Avenue N. W. Mothproof bags and paper for protecting the winter clothing, carpets, rugs, curtains, etc.

F AND TWELFTH STRERTS WASHINGTON, D. C.

TELEPHONE MAIN 673 Lanman Engraving Co. HALF TONES, ZINC ETCHINGS PROCESS ENGRAVERS POST BUILDING Washington, D. C.

E. MUSHINA LADIES' TAILOR and GOWN-MAKER 1348 East Forty-seventh Street, Chicago Telephone—Oalkland 1949

Our daily announcements in the newspapers contain much interest —do not miss them. CLASSIFIED ADVERTISEMENTS

Rate, 15 words 25 cents, 2 cents each additional word. Five insertions for the price of four. All advertisements must be prepaid. To insure insertion in our next issue, all advertisements must be received not later than Tuesday morning. Address, the o Lafayette Square, W m, D. O. FOR SALE

FOR SALB HE WOMAN CITICEN'S LIBRARY

e as Edited by Shailer Matthews, D. D. A practical political and civic reference for women. Twelve handy volumes. GComplete in dealing with the entire development of the science of community better ment.

Special price to clubs or active workers. THE CIVIOS SOCIETY,. Trenton, N. J. FOR RENT

FOR RENT

FURNISHED APARTMENTS; adioining The Valencia. Apply Miss Wilson, 280 St. George Street, St. Augusting, Florida. ——————— WANTED ———

WANTED

LAUNDRY WORK BY HAND; for ladies and children. No machinery us Sunlight Hand Laundry, 1439 Morris Rd. S. E., Washington, D. O.

VIOLINIST AND CELLIST to form trio or music in Washington. Box 28, “The

PER SONAL SERVICE PRINTIN G 621 Plymouth Court The Sign of Onalisy C H I C A G o Wash Skirts of Your Material WILSON 1418 Stevens Building Chicago, Ill.
