--- page 1 ---
Sufffagist

shall earnestly and persistently continue to urge all women to the practical recognition of the old revolutionary maxim, Resistance to tyranny is obedience to God."

this be the New Year resolution of suffragists of today. In our hands is the power to bring to a triumphant concl work for the national suffrage amendment which Miss Antho MAY we have the courage and determination to do what is that in 1917 this half-century struggle of women for frecdom shall be ended.

In our hands is the power to bring to a triumphant conclusion the work for the national suffrage amendment which Miss Anthony began. MAY we have the courage and determination to do what is necessary that in 1917 this half-century struggle of women for political freedom shall be ended.

PUBLISHED BY THE CONGRESSIONAL UNION FOR WOMAN SUFFRAGE AND THE NATIONAL WOMAN'S PARTY

SUSAN B. ANTHONY

The New Year

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 1917

--- page 2 ---
gresstonal linion for Homan Suffrage Nattmnal Riman's Harty

The Arcade, West Washington Street, In-Minnesota, 206 Studio Building, corner Market and apolis Fourth Street, St. Paul

SHIP;Open to a women who, regarding woman surrage as the foremost political issue of the day, will support it irrespect o po y upport it ve of the interests of any CE FER: Twenty-five cents. There are no dues.

lantic States—Mrs. Henry Bruere, N. Y. North Middle Western States—Mrs. A. R. Colvin, Minn. Inland Suffrage States—Mrs. E. M. Garnett. Utah

of Columbia, Lafayette Square, Washington, Massachusetts, 401 Phillips 120 Tremont C 2 o Building, Chicago, Tel. Ran-Michigan, 118 Farmer Street, Detroit )

Membership Miss Emily Stearns, D. C. National Headquarters, Committee of 200 Maintenance of Mrs. Willlam Kent, Cal.

re, 17 Bast 7th Street, Wilmington Wilmington 5580 of Columbia, Lafayette uare, W 1004Stevens Bunms, Chicago The Arcade, West Washington apolis :To secure an amendment to the iSHIP: Open to all women who, onal political party. CE FEE: Twenty-five cents. Th

iss Alice Paul, N. J., Chairman ss Lucy Burns, N. Y. m Miss Anne Martin, Nev., Chairman Members iwrence Lewis, Pa. Miss E National ine Martin, Nev. aud Younger, Cal. Mrs. W

tates—Miss Margaret Whit- f re, Mich. leulah Amidon, N. Dak. ucy, ris Calderh Kas. lantic States—Mrs. Henry Bruer I M. Clagett, Nogales

ward M. Jarrett Rex, Zellville, Marion Co

Finney Mackrille, 1271 37th Avenue, San Francisco Colorade Mrs, Bertha W. oen 1225 Wood Avenue, Colorado Springs OConneotiout Mrs. W. D. 456 Washington Street, Hartford Delawars Mrs. Florence Bayard Hilles 17 East 7th Street, Wilmington Distriot Columbin Mrs, W. T., Burch, 21 Madison Place, Washington, D. C. o Trave rary, Hotel, Boise Bert St rs. Bertram 1004 Stevens Chicago

Robert Adamson, N. Y. Charles F. N. Dak. Jessie Ashley, N. Y. Mary Austin, Cal. Adolphus Clay Bartlett, Ill. Beard, Wyo. Mary Ritter Beard, N. Y. Edward Breitung, Mich. .Alfred H. Minn. verend rown, Wis. iss Mary A. Burnham, Pa. Dora Buell, Col. Annie Wells Cannon, Utah John Carey, Ind. Joseph Carey, Wyo. Alice Carpenter, N. Y. Y. Av ey, Ill. . Cothren, Ill. Lucius M. Cuthbert, Col. George H. Day, Conn. Maris M. Dean, Mont. ss Lavinia Dock, Pa.

Colors—Purple, White and Gold

National Executive Committee of the Congressional Union Mrs. O. H, P. N. Y. Mrs. Gilson Gardner, D. C. Mrs. Harriot Stanton Bl to, Kas. Mr Do M Mrs. John W. Brannan, N. Y. Mrs. Willlam Kent, Cal. Officers of the National Woman's Party Mrs. Phoebe Hearst, Cal., Vice-chairman Miss Alice Paul, N. J., Ba-officto National Departments

Central States—Miss Elsie Hill, Conn. States—Miss Mabel Vernon, ev. National Organizers Miss Gertrude Fendall, Md. Miss Alice Henkle, Ill. Miss Mdred Cal. Mi Mont. Miss Sarah Grant, Minn.

District Chairmen

National Committee of State Chairmen

Indiand Miss Eleanor Barker, 611 Fletcher Sevings & Trust Co., Indianapolis Kansas Mrs., Dan 343 North 15th Street, Manhattan Maine Mrs. Robert Treat Whitehouse, 42 Deering Street, Portland Maryland Mrs. Townsend Scott, 817 North Charles Street, Baltimore Massachusetts Mrs. H. Morey, 120 Tremont Street, Boston Michigan Mrs. Nelson Whittemore, 2067 West Grand Boulevard, Detroit Minnesota Mrs. A. R. Colvin, Davern Avenue, St. Paul Missours Mrs. Edith Barriger. 5430 Cabanne Avenue, St. Louis

National Advisory Council

es ate ae Mrs. Rheta Childe Dorr, N. Y. Miss Crystal Eastman, N. Y. Mrs. J. Andre Fouilhoux, Ore. Miss Susan P. Frost, S. C. Mrs. Emma Maddox Funck, Md. Mrs. Elizabeth Gerberding, Cal. Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Gilman, N. Y. Mrs. Adolphus E. Graupner, Cal. Mrs. Edwin C. Grice, Pa. Mrs. Jennie Law Mich. Mrs. W. E. Hardy, Neb. Mrs. F. R. Hazard, N. Y. Mrs. Phoebe A. Hearst, Cal. Mrs. William Randolph Hearst, N. Y. Mrs. George Hendrie, Mich. N. Y. ss Mary Ing a. Mrs. Inez N. Y. Mrs. Agnes Jenks, R. I. Dr. Cors Smith King, Wash. Miss Fola La Follette, N. Y. Miss Gail Laughlin, Calif.

Mrs. Gilson Gardner, D. C. Mrs. Lawrence Lewis, Pa. M Do M Miss Anne Mart Mrs. William Kent, Cal.

MoOntadnd Mrs. C. S. Haire, 528 Hemlock Street, Helena Nevada Mrs. M. S. Bonnifield, Winnemucca New Jersey Mrs. J. A. H. Hopkins, 17 West Park Street, Newark New Megico Mrs, Joshua 308 South High Street, Albuquerque New York Mrs. O, H. P. Belmont, 13 East 41st Street, New York City North Dakota Mrs. Elizabeth Darrow O'Neil, 714 Eighth Street, Fargo Ohio Mrs. Mead, o Vandalla gon Dr, Florence Manion, 517 Medical Building, Portland Pennsylvania Miss Marie Ernst 213 Hale Bldg., Philadelphia

Secretary, Miss Maud Younger, Cal.

Secretary, Miss Maud Younger, Cal.

Mrs. Lola Maverick Lloyd, Ill, Mrs. Jessie Hardy D. O. Mrs. Lionel S. Marks, Mass. Miss Julia Y. Miss Helen Marot, N. Y. Mrs. Harris Masterson, Tex. Miss Edythe Wynne Mattho, Conn Miss Marion May, N. Y. Mrs. Bernice Mo Idaho Mrs. Lilla Day Monroe, Kans. Mrs. John T. Morrison, Idaho Mrs. William Spencer Mad. Mrs. Ellen O. Mrs. Meredith Nicholson, Ind. Mrs. Adelina Otero-Warren, N. M. Mrs. Marsden Perry, R. I. Mrs. Annie Porritt, Conn. Mrs. Alden Potter, Minn. Mrs. William Prendergast, N. Y. M Mrs. James Hayden Retor, Ohio Mrs. Del. Miss Ella Riegel, Pa.

f

oOf eoson i Doris Stevens, Neb. 00 iss Hazel MacKaye, Mass Press Mrs. Robert Baker, D. C. etary, Miss Virginia Arnold, N. C. Ficld Secretaries

New Jer 17 West Park Street, Newark, Tol. Mar- New York, 13 East 41st Street, New York, Tol. Murray Hll 5444

P 213 Hale Build Philadelph Tel.

Miss Mabel Vernon, Nev., Seoretary Dr. Margaret Long, Col., Treus. search Mrs. Helena Hill Weed, Conn. eausrer, Miss Joy L. Webster, Neb. sistant Treasurer, Miss Gertrude L. Crocker, 111.

Mrs. Helena Hill Weed, Conn. Treausrer, Miss Joy L. Webster, Neb. Assistant Treasurer, Miss Gertrude L. Crocker, Ill.

on, Southern States—Mrs. E. St. Clar Thompson, Ariz. Miss Marion McGaw, Kas. Miss Margery Gibson Ross, Pa. d Suffrage States—Mrs. E. M. Garnett, Utah.

South Caroline Mrs. John Gibbs, 9 Pitt Street, Charleston L. White, rs. Johnson City Tegas Mrs. Clara Snell Wolfe, 909 West 18th Stret, Austin Utah Mrs. Margaret Zane Cherdron, 1901South 9th Street, mast, Salt Lake City Vermont Mrs. J, Borden Estee, Montpeller Ts. G. Meredith, 204 t Grace Street, Richmond Washington Mrs. Otis Floyd Lamson, 1237 Federal Ave., Seattle Wisconsin James, w Richland Center Frances M. Lane, Cody

ounger, Cal. Mrs. Julius Rosenwald, ml. Mrs. Charles Edward Russell, D. G. Mrs. Frederick Sanborn, Cal. Mrs. May Wright Sewall, Ind. Mrs. Austin Sperry, Cal. Mrs. Albert Steinfeld, Ariz. Mrs. Julius Stone, Ohio Mrs. David D. Terry, Ark. Mrs. Mary C. Therkelsen, Ore. Mrs. Robert Gibbes Thomas, S. C. Mrs. W. I. Thomas, Ill. Miss Clara L. Thompson, Mo. Mrs. Shelley Tollhurst, Cal. Mrs. Samuel Untermyer, N. Y. Mrs. Richard Wainwright, D. C. Mrs. Hettie D. M. Wallis, Tex. Mrs. Thomas F. Walsh, D. C. Mrs. John Jay White, D. C. Mrs. Harvey W. Wiley, D. C. Mrs. S. B. M. Young, Mont.

Research

--- page 3 ---
. VOL. $V., No. 54

English Suffragist to Aid Federal Amendment Work

M Pethick Lawrence, noted English suffragist and orator, has cabled that if the English government will grant her a passport she will come to America and assist in the work for women's enfranchisement here. Mrs. Lawrence was the chief speaker at a mass meeting held in Washington, D. C. two years ago by the Congressional Union. She also spoke at the opening of the Congressional Union booth at the Panama-Pacific Exposition at San Francisco, in 1915 and at numerous other cities while crossing the continent.

Woman Suffrage oFirst Importance NE indication of the importance the question O of the national woman suffrage amendment has assumed in America today is the way it is included by the press with other particularly prominent bills and issues before Congress in any analysis of the political situation.

The Washington Post of January 3, in a list headed “What 1917 Holds for Government," puts woman suffrage with a list of bills which a few years ago would have commanded much more attention and have been considered of first importance. In a “Review of the Year 1916" published by the McClure Newspaper Syndicate, among the cight great of the year which it mentions is Growth of Woman Suffrage," while in the Washington Stor of January 2, “The Woman Suffrage Constitutional Amendment" is listed as one of the pieces of unfinished business which may make an extra session of Congress necessary.

Bill for Woman's Division in Government

THE bill to create a woman's division in the T U. S. Department of Labor was reported favorably by the Senate Committee on Education and Labor January 4. After the committee acted the bill was reported to the Senate by Senator Kenyon. The purpose of the bill is to bring together in charge of one division all the governmental activities in which women are concerned. It has been strongly advocated by a number of women's organizations.

Notes of the Weelk

First Woman Given Privilege of Senate Floor

the first time in the history of our country a woman, Miss Jessie L. Simpson, has been granted the privilege of the floor of the Senate of the United States. Miss Simpson was appointed secretary to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, January 2, by Senator Stone, chairman of the committee. She is the first woman to serve as secretary of a Senate committee, a position carrying with it the privilege of the floor.

Presidential Suffrage in Rhode Island

OVERNOR R. Livingston Beeckman of G Rhode Island, in his annual message presented to the legislature after his inaugural ceremonies January 1, urged the immediate consideration of the amendment now before the legislature extending to women the presidential suffrage.

Municipal Suffrage in Florida

UNICIPAL suffrage is fast spreading in M Florida. Clearwater has recently extended the municipal franchise to women, making the fourth town to do so within the past year.

Wife “Merely Agent of Husband" in Massachusctts

HE Public Health Service through a recent T decision of the Supreme Court of the State of Massachusetts has come into possession of the following fact

“If a butcher sells decayed meat to a married couple, the wife doing the marketing and leaving the choice of meat to the butcher, the husband can collect damages for the illness caused by cating the meat, but the wife cannmot, for she acts, in the theory of the law, merely as agent of the husband and has no contractual relation with the butcher.'—(Public Health Reports 3477.)

Woman Appointed as Assistant to State Official WOMAN will take an active part in the . handling of the legal problems of the State of Colorado after January 9. She is Miss Clara Ruth Mozzor, appointed an assistant attorney-general by Attorey-general-clect Leslie E. Hubbard

As an assistant attorney-general, Miss Mozzor will have charge of legal matters relating especially to laws concerning women and children. Extension of the scope of probationary laws, mothers' compensation, minimum wage for women, child labor and similar statutes, which are expected through legislative action in Colorado this winter, will create an enlarged field of legal work in which Attorney-General-elect Hubbard anticipates a woman will be especially valuable. The appointment marks the first time a woman has been mamed to fill an office of this kind.

The International Suffrage Shop HE International Suffrage Shop in London T is one of the suffrage activities which is continuing in England during the war. The shop was founded in 1910 by Miss Sime Seruya and has been constantly growing since that date. Its purpose is to strengthen the suffrage movement by keeping suffragists informed of the work done by the various organizations. It also acted as an information bureau to foreign journalists and was most useful as an advertising centre for the suffrage cause.

An appeal for funds to keep the shop open has been issued signed by the following well-known suffragists of Great Britain: Mrs. Despard, Leonora de Alberti, Margaret Hodge, Norah March, Miss Alison Neilans, H. C. Newcomb, Mrs. Pethick Lawrence, Miss Sylvia Pankhurst, Mrs. Kineton Parkes, Miss Dorothy Pethick, Reginald Pott, Miss Daisy Solomon, Mrs. H. M. Swanwick, and Miss Barbara Tchaykovsky.

Women of Holland Fight Alone

HOLLAND the equal suffrage amendment to the constitution is still under discussion. The government proposes to amend the constitution so as to remove the existing obstacle in the constitution to women's enfranchisement. It does not propose to enfranchise women, but simply to change the constitution so that the woman suffrage measure may be introduced at some future time.

The only political party in Holland which accepts the principle of woman suffrage in its party program is the Social Democratic. In the present suffrage discussion, however, the question of suffrage for women has been subordinated by the Socialists in the interest of suffrage for laboring men. The Socialist leader, Troelstra, assured the government that his party would not insist on the inclusion of women in the extension of the franchise and that it would support the government's limited measure sooner than jeopardize more votes for men.

--- page 4 ---
t

[11 National Headquarters opened opposite the White House, Washington.

2] One of the deputations to Democratic leaders. (N. Y. deputation addressing Secretary of the Navy Daniels.)

[3) Suffrage Special leaving Washington for West.

frage territory under state committees of the Congressional Union was completed. By the beginning of March a state branch of the Union under a strong chairman and committee had been formed in each state where women vote.

the laying of the ground-work of organization in the suffrage states the

“Suffrage Special" went through the West to rally the women voters to the great Woman's Party Convention to be held in Chicago in June. This, one of the most dramatic expeditions that has ever been made for suffrage, left a marked impression on the enfranchised states. Many of the most brilliant women in the country made this arduous journey to put squarely before western men and women the status of the federal suffrage demand, to point out the exact origin of the opposition in Congress, and to appeal for the formation of a Woman's Party that would put the question of women's freedom above political considerations. All along the route great demonstrations of approval were held by the voting women. A two-days' demonstration was held in Chicago; thrilling meetings followed in Kansas, Wyoming, Colorado, and Arizonma. In California impressive meetings were held in Los Angeles, San Francisco and Sacramento. Oregon, Washington, Montana, and Nevada were visited, the tour ending in a sreat conference of women voters in Salt Lake. Everywhere the welcome to these distinguished women from the East was official, Governors and Mayors going on record as favoring the full enfranchisement of the women of the nation.

HE Woman Voters' Conference, held in Salt T Lake City in May, with delegates representing all of the suffrage states present, crystalized this aroused sentiment of the voting

4

ing larger s g larg f convenient amendment expand in center. Orga and entertain the efficient ments at th De F ROM t of the o the vo

Review of the Year

HE year 1916 has been the year of great- T est activity and greatest accomplishment since the Congressional Union for Woman Suffrage began its active fight for the passage of the federal suffrage amendment four years ago. During this short space of time suffrage for the women of the nation has been made a national issue. The cumulative events of the past year have done more than anything else to contribute to this result. Suffrage has been at last removed from the realm of causes, and the least astute politicians realize that the women of the nmation are now able to make a political demand which must be heeded.

New Headquarters Opened

HE opening of Cameron House, whose T old walls remember the plots of generations of politicians; whose front, flying the purple, white and gold of the Congressional

Union, looks across at the White House, was the first chapter of the Union's 1916 work. With this mansion as headquarters, furnish-

ing larger offices, superior equipment, and more convenient housing for the little army of federal amendment workers, the Union has been able to expand in many directions from the national center. Organization work, the raising of funds, and entertaining have all been simplified through the efficient ordering of the various departments at this pivotal point.

Deputations to President

ROM the beginning of the year the emphasis F of the Congressional Union was placed on the voting women of the West, in the effort to visualize to Congressmen, to political leaders, and the general public the existence of the woman voter and her interest in national woman suffrage.

The first expression, in 1916, by voting women of support of the National Suffrage Amendment, came from a delegation of Kansas members of the Congressional Union. When the President reached Topeka, his only stop in suffrage territory during the preparedness tour, in January, a deputation of seventy-five women urged him to pass the National Amendment. The deputation received no assurance of aid from the President, however. The same reception was given by the President to a delegation of New York members of the Union who waited upon him with the same object during his visit to New York on the preparedness trip.

Organization of Suffrage States

HE first comprehensive undertaking during 1916 was the swing through the suffrage states, commencing, in January and ending in March, during which the organization of suf-

y

The Suffrage Special

Salt Lake Conference

--- page 5 ---
t h y worn o west and est and made the formation of a Woman's Party pledged to put suffrage first the logical outcome if President Wilson ed to respond to the united voice of the disfranchised east and the enfranchised west. At this conference the teps were taken in organizing the ho whole of the suffrage territory under (.

Welcoming Envoys on Return to National Capital

were chosen, one for the inland suffrage states and one for the Pacific Coast states, with the task of promoting the organization in these respective

Resolutions from Women Voters Presented to Congress

RESOLUTION demanding action was car- A ried to Washington from the conference and presented to Congress, May 16, by three voting women, Mrs. C. S. Haire of Montana, Mrs. Wallace Williams of Washington State, and Miss Alice L. Reynolds of Utah, who accompanied the “Suffrage Special" on its return to Washington.

Few who witnessed the return of the suffragists who had made this unique journey will forget that dramatic welcome home from the crowds that gathered on the Capitol steps on the beautiful afternoon in May, to hail their presence.

Great crowds greeted the travelers at the station. The mass of people was punctuated by the purple, white and gold colors of the Union. Following the formal luncheon of welcome at the station, the party proceeded to the Rotunda of the Capitol, followed by as much of the crowd as could wedge in. For the first time in history a great suffrage ceremony was held within the Capitol. With many members of Congress present, including nearly all of the Representatives of the suffrage states, the resolutions demanding action on suffrage were presented to Representatives Mondell of Wyoming and Raker of California and Senator Sutherland of Utah, who had introduced the suffrage amendment in the House and Senate. Congress had been formally served notice concerning the sentiment of the voting west.

Roosevelt Declares in Favor of National Amendment HILE the “Suffrage Special" was flying W through the west arousing ever increasing

sentiment among the voting women for the federal amendment, its effect and the effect of other methods of visualizing the voting power of women began to be apparent in the changed attitude of political leaders of the east. The first to register his support of the national amendment was Colonel Roosevelt. In response to a deputation from the Congressional Union, Colonel Roosevelt pledged his support, April 28th to the Susan B. Anthony amendment. This action marked an era, indicating that national woman suffrage was at last on the political map.

Woman's Party Formed

HE formation of the National Woman's Party in Chicago, June 5, 6 and 7, was perhaps the most historic event of the year.

Thousands of women from every part of the country came to Chicago to attend this first political convention ever called by women. It was at this brilliant gathering, animated by many of the notable women of the country, that the definite policy of the Congressional Union,—holding the party in power responsible for the status of the suffrage amendment,—decided the action of the suffrage states in regard to suffrage. After a three day session there was launched in the political arena a full fledged woman's political party ready to take its part in the coming Autumn elections if by that time the suffrage amendment had not been passed by Congress.

Suffrage in Platforms of Political Partics

HE mobilization of the women voters as T indicated in the organization of branches of the Congressional Union in all of the suffrage states; as revealed by the trip of the “Suffrage Special;" and finally as demonstrated most dramatically by the formation of the Woman's Party, challenged the attention of all political parties then holding their national conventions. These conventions were systematically covered by lobbies of the Congressional Union and the nmewly formed Woman's Party, who urged upon the leaders the wisdom of action on suffrage at Washington. They did not ask for planks in platforms, but for immediate action in Congress.

The Progressive Convention and later the Prohibition Convention declared specifically for the national suffrage amendment,—the first time such a stand had ever been taken by a national political party. The agitation for immediate action finally brought even the politicians of the two majority parties, the Republican and Democratic, to volunteer, for the first time in suffrage history, a recognition of the suffrage principle. A glimmer of the truth as to the power of women that later, during the campaign, was to become a glare, had already reached many of the political leaders.

The whole history of the work of the Congressional Union lobby at the Democratic Convention in St. Louis; the gradual dawning on the consciousness of Democratic politicians that the “lost cause" they had never regarded seriously, had usurped a place in their party councils because of the determined attitude of the voting west, had its humorous side. The Democratic suffrage plank was the crutch that Democracy conceded to the western Congressman and the national ticket to help them through the coming campaign.

The National Socialist Party later followed suit by giving its support to the national suffrage amendment.

5

--- page 6 ---
a.. h $ a t

1) The Woman's Party Convention at Chicago in June. Opening Meeting at Blackstone Theatre

Another Attempt to Obtain Aid from the President

DELEGATION of Democratic women A anxious to support the national Democratic ticket in the autumn elections, made a last appeal to the President, on July 3, to act before election time. They explained their desire shared by many other Democratic women, to work for the Democratic party, but stated that they felt compelled to oppose that party in the mext election if the administration continued to block the federal amendment. President Wilson replied to this deputation that he could not take any step at that time owing to the opposition of the southern Democrats in Congress who were against the amendment because of the race question. He gave the delegation to understand that “States' Rights" was no longer an objection in

Hughes Declares for the National Amendment HILE constant effort was being made to W obtain active support in Congress from the President and the Democratic leaders,

attention was also given to the Presidential candidate of the Republican party, and an extensive campaign was instituted to bring him to declare for the enfranchisement of women by national action. On July 31, the day following his speech of acceptance, Mr. Hughes publicly declared his support of the national suffrage amendment then pending in Congress. This was the first time that a presidential candidate of one of the two major parties had given his support to the federal amendment.

With Mr. Hughes' declaration the extension of the franchise to women by national action became one of the issues of the campaign.

Colorado Springs Conference

N August 10 in Colorado Springs the first O conference of the newly formed Woman's Party was held to consider action in the coming election. The conference presided over by the national chairman of the Woman's Party, and attended by representatives from all the suffrage states, decided to urge all women voters to register a protest vote against President Wilson and the Democratic candidates for Congress be-

cause of the opposition of the party to the national enfranchisement of women. The conference in addition to the business sessions had many delightful social aspects and ended with an enormous outdoor mass meeting, marking the opening of the Woman's Party election activities.

Election Campaign campaign of the Woman's Party was carried on with vigor in the twelve suffrage states beginning immediately at the conclusion of the Colorado Springs Conference.

During August and early September the developing of further organization among voting women was emphasized; later a thorough-going campaign of speeches, circularizing, and press work was undertaken. Inez Milholland was sent during the last month of the campaign as a special envoy by the unenfranchised women, as represented by the Congressional Union, to appeal to the woman voters to cast their vote on the suffrage issue and against the party that had blocked the enfranchisement of women. The campaign reached its highest point in each state with this appeal presented by Inez Milholland to the state

--- page 7 ---
2]1 Covering National Conventions of Political Parties (Scene Outside Prohibiton Convention)

a 3

chairman and through her to all the women of the state. The campaign was brought to a close the night before election by an appeal from the women of the east transmitted by telephone to the chairmen in each of the suffrage states. From a great mass meeting in Chicago there was sent this last appeal which Inez Miholland had started out to carry through the West and had been compelled to hand into other hands at Los Angeles, where she laid down the work. Thus on the eve of election, women of all the suffrage states were linked together listening each of them through their state chairman, to the call of the women of the east to cast their votes in the interest of political freedom for all American women.

With a campaign fund that was trifling in comparison with the great sums spent to counteract their efforts, the Woman's Party succeeded in making the national enfranchisement of women one of the dominant issues' in the campaign throughout suffrage territory. The opposition of the Democratic party was so bitter that it amounted to a tribute. It served to demonstrate that suffrage was at last a political issue. National Democratic campaigners in the west have been the first to acknowledge the result of the campaign and are asking for action by their party before the Woman's Party has time to gather further strength for another campaign.

President Reminded of Suffrage on Opening of Congress reconvening of Congress in December found suffragists determined that their

measure should no longer be brushed aside. On the day on which the President delivered his opening address, he was reminded of the unsolved question which his own campaigners had promised action on—federal suffrage. A distinguished group of members of the Woman's Party and the Congressional Union unfurled a banner before the eyes of the President and an astonished Congress. “Mr. President, what will you do for suffrage ?" was the question on the banner that was flashed from one end of the country to the other the next day when a nation read the President's message. The fact that suffragists had reiterated the old question on the opening of Congress brought squarely into the public mind once more that the promises of Democratic campaigners in the west in regard to suffrage could not be dodged by this Congress without loss of credit to the party.

Amendment Reported Out of Judiciary Committee INGULARLY enough, the release of the suf- S frage bill from its repose in the Judiciary Committee of the House occurred little more than a week after the unfurling of the historic suffrage banner. The suffrage bill, which the

7

[3] The Colorado Springs Convention of Woman's Party, in August at which the Election Policy was Adopted

committee had refused during an entire year to report was voted out on December 14, the very first day of meeting since the presidential campaign when the women voters of the west cast so heavy a protest vote for the Woman's Party. For twelve months the Congressional Union lobby had waited in vain outside the Judiciary Committee door each Tuesday and Thursday when the Committee met. It seemed as if the Democratic party was no longer willing to bear the brunt of the displeasure of women for blocking the suffrage amendment.

The National Memorial Service T HE final event of 1916, which fell as a benediction upon the year's work was the great

. diction upon the year s work was the great memorial at Washington for Inez Milholland Boissevain, young leader who had given her life for the political freedom of women. It was the ination of a series of memorials held in different parts of the country by the members of the Woman's Party and the Congressional Union who had been Inez Milholland's comrades in her last campaign. This beautiful tribute, held within the national Capitol on Christmas day, attended by national figures, including many members of Congress, took on additional significance from the fact that these services were made possible through the cordial cooperation of the Speaker of the House and other members of Congress.

--- page 8 ---
WiS0on t . 1 N Al f TCFHIONAL NATIO AGE 11 Holding banner outside Democratic rally in Illinois. I2) Woman's Party demonstration outside President Wilson's meeting in Chicago. [3) Clearing away the wreckage after Democratic mob attacked Woman's Party demonstration.

Departments Increase in Size and Efficiency Naddition to the series of dramatie events I which kept the federal amendment steadily before the Democratic leaders and Congress, and which made them realize the growing strength and determination of the demand for the amendment, there continued the steady work of the various departments which were, in a sense, the back-bome of the activities of the year.

Finance Treasurer's Department has been one of the busiest at the National Headquarters.

The volume of its work has so increased as to make necessary the addition of another worker in this department. The money raised by the Union during 1916 was nearly equal to the amount collected during the three previous years. In the three years, 1913, 1914, and 1915, $116,329.00 passed through the Treasurer's Office. During 1916 $111,423.00 was collected. This was more than twice the amount collected during the previous year, more than three times the amount collected during 1914, and more than four times the amount received during 1913, the first year of the work at Washington. Contributions from individual donors to the Union's funds during the year ranged from ten cents to $26,000.00; approximately a thousand different individuals contrib-

uted, and, unlike the early years of the federal amendment work, when it was maintained almost entirely by the District of Columbia, the treasury drew from all parts of the country. The Treasurer's report is a convincing proof of the phenominal growth of interest throughout the country in the federal amendment campaign.

Legislative URING the year the Legislative Committee, D under the chairmanship of Miss Anne Martin of Nevada, was divided into two Committees, the Legislative and the Lobby Committee. Miss Maud Younger of California, one of the brilliant workers under Miss Martin, is the Chairmen of the latter Committee, assisted by a group of western voters who have proved most effective lobbyists for the federal amendment.

The Legislative Committee has spent a crowded year in active work that has reached every state in the Union, and kept in touch with federal amendment workers in all parts of the country. One of the powerful factors in bringing pressure to bear on public men has been the “letter lobbies" through which concerted appeals on behalf of the suffrage amendment reached many public men during the year.

Throughout the country deputations were sent to members of Congress and political leaders, composed of their constituents, urging their support of the national amendment. A deputation

of distinguished New York women, led by Mrs Harriott Stanton Blatch, interviewed Secretary of the Navy Josephus Daniels early in January, urging him to use his influence as a cabinet member in support of the amendment. This was followed by similar deputations through the year. The President and Members of the Cabinet and of Congress, wherever they went over the country, were reminded of the widespread desire that the federal amendment be passed.

The Legislative files and card catalogues at the national headquarters, which minutely follow the changing opinions of Congressmen and public men in regard to suffrage, and give the individual background of each man, have furnished the information necessary as a guide to the lobbyists at Congress and the legislative workers who are backing up the congressional effort in their Congressman's district.

Organization RANCHES of the Congressional Union B were organized during 1916 in Massachusetts, Texas, Arkansas, Tennessee, Illinois, Wisconsin, Kansas, New Mexico, Arizona, Wyoming, Montana, Washington, North Dakota, Missouri, Indiana, and Iowa, making in all thirtysix states in which the Union is now organized, with state chairmen and state committees in charge of each state. The organization of congressional districts, counties and the

--- page 9 ---
t

2] Telephone appeal night before election, to women of twelve suffrage states to use their 2 vote for political freedom of women. [3) Ines Milholland, envoy from the unenfranchised women to

[1] Appealing to the woman voter by strect banners in the Woman's Party campaign.

smaller political divisions has been carried on in states where the state organization has been effected. In some instances, such as Wyoming and Arizona, every county has been organized under county committees. In other states, such as Delaware, even the smallest towns have been organized; and in the District of Columbia an organization has been brought about in each police precinct and considerable headway made in organizing each police beat city.

The general organization of the country in support of the federal amendment is under the direction of the chairman of the organization department. She has endeavored to sub-divide the country into geographical divisions, and obtain a chairman for each division as rapidly as possible, who will assist in developing the organization in her territory. Already chairmen are at work in the Middle Atlantic, North Middle Western and Inland suffrage states. National organizers have been kept constantly in the field throughout the year. The total number of organizers at work during 1916 was thirty-two, some of whom continued throughout the entire year while others were engaged only during certain campaigns.

Membership Membership Department shows a most remarkable growth in membership in the twelve suffrage states. The end of the year

finds the total membership in the suffrage territory exceeding by a thousand the membership in all of the other thirty-six states combined. The membership files demonstrate that the concentrated effort by the Union in suffrage territory has born fruit.

The year ends with New York heading the list with the largest membership of any state. It is followed closely by California and then by Illinois. The District of Columbia, the smallest division in the country, has over a thousand paid members, forming a splendid basis for the suffrage demonstrations and deputations which have become so much a part of Washington life.

National Headquarters

W Mrs. William Kent as chairman of the committee of two hundred for the maintenance of the national headquarters, the whole rental expense of the house has been met. The bed-rooms on the two upper floors have been rented to suffrage workers and the drawing rooms to clubs and classes, the proceeds going toward the upkeep. The headquarters have served as a place for meetings, receptions and suffrage functions of all kinds, in addition to furnishing a home for all the business departments connected with the Union's activities.

9

“The Suffragist”

HE circulation of ThHe SurFRAGIST has more T than doubled during the past year, and its advertising sections assumed an importance that necessitated enlarging the paper. The paper has been sent cach week during 1916 to the President and each member of Congress, different members of the Union having subscribed for the paper for this purpose. Federal amendment workers in the suffrage states, in particular, have appreciated being kept closely in touch with the work at the Capitol. The Illinois circulation of THE SUFFRAGIST, the largest in the country, has grown up within the year. California has doubled her subscription list, as has Colorado.

The cartoons in THe SurrrAGIST have been of particular value. They have been reprinted in newspapers and magazines all over the country and have been instrumental in keeping the general public in touch with the political situation of suffrage as it changes from day to day. During the campaign some of the most effective pieces of literature were SUFFRAGIST cartoons reprinted as dodgers, and the famous “Suffrage Girl" was used on bill-boards and in shop windows through the entire west.

--- page 10 ---
COMMITTE. t h t1s T a Leaving the Capi- Lobby waitin displaying Judiciary suffrage Comnmit during on day reading of of Sfrge A report message. A f commit- 3 : aA

One of the Achievements of the Year By Gilson Gardner (Mr. Gardner, Washington correspondent of the Newspaper Enterprise Association, is regarded as one of the most eaperienced and abl political writers at the national capital. Mr. Gardner's statement is particularly interesting hecause as a supporter of the Democratic national ticket he was on the opposite side to the Woman's Party during the election campaign.)

10

HAVE been in Washington as an independent I representative of an idependent group of newspapers for nearly twenty years. I have made the study of political events my life work and feel therefore that I can speak with some authority on political matters. I was closely in touch with the Democratic campaign managers during this campaign, and I will say very frankly for Vance McCormick that the one thing which most troubled him was the Woman's Party.

There are several very significant things in the returns of this election. I spent six weeks traveling about the country to make forecasts of the election. I began in San Diego and ended in Boston. When I arrived in Illinois I went to the Republican headquarters and there was informed, greatly to my surprise, by the manager of the state campaign, that they had given up hope of carrying that state for Hughes; that the state was sure to go to Wilson through the pacifist vote. This opinion I confirmed in other ways. Then I

31 Inez Milholland Memorial Service, National Capitol e of the Achievements of the Y By Gilson Gardner of the Newspaper Enterprise Association, is regarded apital. Mr. Gardner's statement is particularly interesti t he was on the opposite side to the Woman's Party durir

moved East and in my final forecast made the great mistake of placing Illinois in the Democratic column, about the only serious mistake I made; I made it because I left Illinois about three weeks before the election—and I left the Woman's Party campaign against Wilson in full swing in that state. During those three weeks the Woman's Party literally raised the roof, with their street demonstrations, at which they were mobbed, with their speaking, with their banners across the streets, with their remarkably skillful publicity. Unquestionably they changed about 50,000 votes in that state. Perhaps they changed 100,000. Let us take the official returns. Illinois is the one state in the United States where they count the woman's vote separately from the men's and it showed that, counting the votes of the minority parties, there were 70,000 more women who voted against Wilson than for him. In Illinois, as in every other part of the country—and this was verified again and again,—the women were pacifists. With this strong element it was all the more remarkable that so many women voted for Hughes. The slogan, “He kept us out of war,"

was taken by the Woman's Party and turned into the slogan, “He kept us out of suffrage." There is one fact no politician can get away from in this election—how the women voted in Illinois. If the votes had been counted in the far western states it is fairly certain that the woman's vote would have been found to be against Wilson as in Illinois. These states would have gone overwhelmingly for Wilson had it not been for the efforts of the Woman's Party.

The balance of political power has moved to the west. It is no longer a matter of how Indiana, Illinois and New York vote that will determine the President of the future. They are going to be determined by the south plus the west, or the west plus the east—but the west is the determining factor. Already we hear of Hiram Johnson as the next presidential candidate, because the election is no longer to be determined by the east. The solidity of the woman's vote in those western states is the most important political factor in the west and will be the most important thing in the next campaign.

--- page 11 ---
Comments of the Press

Wilson Administration Friendly to Federal Amendment HE Wilson administration has determined to T place no obstacle in the way of the movement to enfranchise women by federal amendment. The judiciary committee got the tip to report out the Susan B. Anthony amendment, and did so. Champ Clark, when asked by the Congressional Union to permit the use of Statuuary Hall in the Capitol building for a memorial service to Inez Milholland, did not hesitate to grant the request.

The service, by the way, was most impressive. And now the chief of police of Washington has granted a permit to hold a suffrage parade on Sunday on Pennsylvania avenue, if the suffragists want to parade on Sunday, or even in the evening, if they wish a torchlight parade. If the

Memphis (Tenn.) Commercial Asseal Confi amendment is not passed at this session, it will be the votes of Congressmen that will prevent its passage, and the Congressmen will have to assume personal responsibility for their opposition. —Gilson Gardner in N. Y. Coall, December 31.

The Anthony Amendment committee report of the proposed national woman suffrage amendment to the

House is frank recognition of the importance of the issue and the potency of the suffrage cause. It does not guarantee the passage of the amendment; it does mark definite progress, and it leaves the way open for further progress towards the complete enfranchisement of the women of the United States. And, which is politically important, it throws the matter straight into the House where the eyes of the public are upon it and upon the attitude and action of the members toward it. Attempts now to ignore it would be absurd.

Discussion of woman suffrage has been in large measure switched from old-fashioned arguments to consideration of political expediency. The political expediency now emphasized is apparent. The Democratic party needs to strengthen itself

$

in Congress, at the Congressional elections two years hence. This must of course be the desire and determination of President Wilson. The President is not, we believe, addicted to longrange politics, preferring the closer and quickaction method which has served him well politically. Nevertheless it is undoubtedly in his mind that the suffrage strength is growing, and that in the recent national campaign the woman voter was a considerable factor. He must see that this factor will be more powerful two years hence, and that its strength needs to be cultivated for practical purposes—and this without discredit to him, for it is an obvious necessity that to further his program he needs the best support in Congress that he can win.

Woman suffragists are encouraged by the present situation. They have a right to be.—Boston Record, December 15.

Suffrage at Washington affairs at Washington, however, are not being handled with paint brushes this

season. There are those among the leaders of the real working organization, the Congressional Union, who will scorn this skimmed-milk verse. Their object is not to make the Congressman's year “more pleasant," but to offer him the chance to make his political health more secure. The suffragists working for the federal amendment talk plainly in terms of revenge. They have ceased begging—"“Won't you set us free?" The plaintive note is gone from their addresses. The word “must" enters frequently into public and private discussions.

There is little poetry in the suffragists' demands, but there is much truth. There are twelve suffrage states and there is a well-heeled Woman's Party working for national suffrage. So why sing, when the light opera phase of the suffrage movement is past? If the suffragists, after their part in the 1916 campaign, fail to make their greatest demonstration during the present session of Congress, their friends will be much surprised and their enemies much encouraged.—Boston Journal, December 30.

Confidentiall

11

1310 CHESTNUT STREET, PHILA. Suits, Coats, Gowns, Blouses, Skirts Millinery, Furs

Exclusively for Women Then why not stay at Hotel Rutledge Lexington Ave. and 30th St. New York Rooms from $1.00 daily Room with full board from $12.00 to $18.00 per week. All outside rooms 1222 Walnut St. “Stols without Extravagance" Philldelphis Institute" 2107 S Street. N.W. Science, Literature Wasnfgton. D.C. Mus'c and Art

--- page 12 ---
To the Advertisement Manager, THE SUFFRAGHIST. Lafayette Square, Washington, D. C. Please insert the undermentioned Advertisement in Tus SurrrAcIST for.. ..... Insertions to be published .for which I enclose the sum of $....... Date WRITE ADVERTISEMENT HERE Classified Advertisement Rate, 15 words 25 cents, 2 cents cach additional word. Five insertions for the price of four. Al Advertisements must be presaid. The Advertisement Manager reserves to herself the right to resect and return with remittamce any Advertisement which she may consider wnsitable for insertion in this section of the saser.

The New Shoe FOR WOMEN Pe-Dom-Ic Cantil A SHOE that brings to you a new standard of comfort and style—a shoe that conforms to the dictates of fashion, and at the same time affords you the very maximum of comfort.

The flexible shank and snug-fitting arch give proper support to the foot, but yield absolute freedom. A sole built on natural lines and a shaped heel keep the foot in the correct walking position. Scientific in design—pleasing to look at—delightful to walk in—the result marks the greatest advance in shoemaking since its inception—comfort with style. Write today for Booklet S. "Care of the Feet," and measurement blanks, S. Dalsimer & Sons stablished 1880 —

S. Dalsimer & Sons

21 MADISON PLACE N. W.

HE attractive drawing rooms of T Cameron House are for rent for private entertaining and for club and society meetings. Low rental for their use afternoons and evenings. One dressing room and the service of maid, also open fire if desired. For small clubs or committees requiring only one room special arrangements will be made. Visitors will be welcome to look over the rooms. For further information apply to Mrs. Ella Dean, Official Hostess.

WEST END TRUST CoPANY

Receives Deposits Acts as Executor, Administrator Guardian, Trustee, Agent Sells Foreign Exchange, Travelers' Letters of Credit, Express Checks Maintains an Up-to-date Safe Deposit Department and a Storage Department for trunks and packages Manages Real Estate, Collects Rents etc. Lends Money on Approved Collateral Security

12

D

Drawing Rooms For Rent

Washington, D. C.

Washington, D. C.

CAPITAL and SURPLUS $4,000,000

F AND TWELFTH STREETS WASHINGTON, D. C. John J. Donovan & Co. Hainters and Beroraturs '1210 N. 13 St. PHILADELPHIA, PA.

SOCIETY STATIONERY E. MORRISON PAPER CO. 1009 Pennsylvania Avenue N. W. Mothproof bags and paper for protecting the winter clothing, carpets, rugs, curtains, etc. To the Advertisement Manager, THE SUF Lafayette Square, Washington, D. C Please insert the undermentioned Adverti facoriioune fo he auheched

$6.50

Brentaun's Booksellers, Engravers and Stationers

. Kanun Sons & G.

A ROSY GLOW Soft and restfully inviting, Floods the Rooms of Fashion's Finest Homes— Lamps Magnificent

Have Again Come Into Their Own For Lady's Boudoir, a display includes quaint, delicate; ocoing to fancy; with shades pretty colorings, and of generous size. On the Library Table, the Lamp takes on a restful, quiet dress; and here shades are in softest tones. The Pianist finds delight in the clear steady light; the artist revels in the wondrous shapes and designs of Piano Lamps to be found in our splendid collection. Lighting the way up stately Floor Lamps stand tall and straight, in finest finish; with glorious shades of brocade and silken fringe; in odd and beautiful shapes. Priced $2.69 to $50.00 A collection worth a special visit to

Kann's—Third Floor. Rate, 15 words 25 cents, 2 cents each additional word. Five insertions for the price of four. All advertisements must be prepaid. To insure insertion in our next issue, all advertisements must be received not later than Tuesday morning. Address, the Advertising Manager THE SUFFRAGIST,. Lafayette Square, Washington, D. C. FOR SALE

FOR SALE HE WOMAN CITIZEN'S LIBRARY

A practical political and civic reference for women. Twelve handy volumes. Complete in dealing with the entire development of the science of community betterment. Special price to clubs or active workers. THE OIVIOS SOCIETY,. Trenton, N. J. CURRANT JUICE from which fresh jelly can be made at any time by boiling four minutes and adding sugar. Sample for two glasses sent with directions for 20c. arion Tuttle, Hornell, N. Y.

LAUNDRY WORK. BY HAND; for ladies and children. No machinery used. Sunlight Hand Laundry, 1439 Morris Rd. S. E., Washington, D. C.

LECTURE by Hon. O. T. Atkinson, author, lawyer and orator. “Torpedoes for Anti-Suffragists. Metropolitan press rates Atkinson one of the ablest lawyers and orators, Booklet by request. Authors Selling Co.. 59 Court St. Newark, N. J.

VIOLINIST AND CELLIST to form trio or quartette chamber music in Washington. Box Suffragist." AGIST. ent in Tus SurrRAGIST for.. ... for which I enclose the sum of $.........
