--- page 1 ---
dhe Rerolution.

HE TRUE REPUBLIC—MEN, THEIR RIGHTS AND FOTRING NORE WONES, THEIR RIGHTS AND NOrSING LRESS.

HE TRUE REPUBLIC—MEN, THEIR RIGHTS AND FOTRING NORE WONES, THEIR RIGHTS AND NOrSING LRESS.

VOL. V.—NO. 16.

he enstnti

Che Hrnolntinn.

PUBLISHED WEEKLY, $3 A YEAR. NEW YORE OrTY SUPSCRIBEES, $3.20. LIZABETH CADY STANTON, Eaite PAULINA WRIGHT DAVIS, Cor. Edit USAN B. ANTHONY, Proprietor.

RLIZABETH CADY STANTON, Editor. PAULINA WRIGHT DAVIS, Cor. Editor. SUSAN B. ANTHONY, Preoprietor.

OFFICE, 49 EAST TWENTY-THIRD ST., K. Y. r Portry.

Portry.

THE THREE KISSES.

1 mAvE three Kissee in my life So sweet and sacred unto me That now till desth dews rest on them My iips shall kinsions be. One kiss was given in childnood's bovr By one who never gave amother, n lite and death I stll shall foel That last kiss of my mother Tho secomd burned my lips for years, Yor years my wild heart reoled in biiss At every memory of the hour When my lips felt young Love's fst kine The last kiss of the saored three. Haud all the woe which ere can move The besrt of woman—it was pressed Upon the dead lips of my love. When lips bave felt the dying kiss, And felt the kiss of burning love, And kissed the dead—then never more In kissing should they think to move

Mas. E. B. BRowrIFa.

DEEDS, NOT WORDS.

Nov forever on thy knees. would Jobovah thee have found There are burdens thou canstesse, There wre griots Johovah see Look sround. Work is prayer if done for God, Prayer which God delightnd bears. fee beside yon unturned sod One bow od nesth aficon's rod Dry her tears. Notmg prayers. but sarnest seal This i what is wanted more. Potthy shoulder to the wheel Bresd unto the fmisbed dral From thy store. Not bigh sounding words of praise Do God want nesth some bigh dome Put that thow the falien reie Wring the poor from ise's bighways To thy home.

Worship God by doing good nip the wffering e who loves 3o0 be ho Makes his heart's love wnderoot By ind de. Deds ar power. worare w Battering igh Hevon or L.t thy tove by actions apesd ————

NEW YORK, THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 1870.

NEW YORK, THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 1870.

Be it thine life's oares to mote. And so biighten eyes pow dim. Kind aeods Gone to ome no God aocepts as done, my brother, Unto Mim. —— tered sooording to Aot of Congress. in the by Alsoe Oary. in the Cleri's Offoe of the D of the United States, for the Southern Distr yor

Entered sooording to Aot of Congresa. in the year 1870, by Alsoe Cary. in the Clerk's Offoe of the District Oourt of the United States, for the Southers District of New Yorh

The Born Thrall.

BY ALICE CARY.

CHAPTERER XVI1.

CHAPTEE XVI. RACHEL'S STORY (COWTINUED.) WrLL, when the young girl was pearl; —the story went on—she was callod

“Wma, when the young girl was npearly sizteen—the story went on—she was called besutiful, and she was not foolishly proud of her had, of course, her own ittle vamity, on the approsch of a holiday in summer, the desire to have a white dress with pink ribbons in which to danoe took possession of her. What, with lost time, snd lost pay, she could not save enough from her ordimary wages to buy this rustic finery. and many were the harmliess devices she framed in order to procure it. At last she conoeived the ides of picking and selling berries, which she could do sfter the day's work was done, and thus obtain the ornaments she so much coveted.

In due time, this plan was put in execution. One day it bappened that she set out with ber basket of berries under more than unnsuslly discouraging ciroumstances, and ill mok went with ber from place to place. Some persons seid they had no money, others that they could pick their own berries, while others again shut the door in ber face, and told ber she had better be at home st work like an bovest girl—that they didn't encourage peddiers of any sort. Such insults were hard to bear; a ough she knew in her beart that she was working like an honest girl, sbe coulc not keep up ber oourags, nor prevent the tingle of shame that rose to her cheeks.

The sun scorched ber shrinking face and shoulders, and the very plantains that were commonly so cool to ber bare feet, lay hot snd wilted fiat agninst the ground. The blood ooned from ber arms and hands where the briers had soratched them., and they ached with the burden of her basket, and hor heart ached. with its beavier, though unsoen burden. She beoame st last so tired, o sioh of all she ws. or ever could bope to be, thet, torgetting dres mbbons, and all that belongs to bobdays, she sat down in the shadow of a grest osk thet grew by the rosd-ide—ot 5o muoh to rent because she bad no courage to go on. Al around ber was serene and oheerfulquiet homesteads with blue smoke curiingov em. and venishing. sway iopy the yellow giears of harvestsihe white sioeved

WHOLE NO. 130

mowers and reapers—the rosd. rimg falling along the hill—grey barns, and besvytopped orchards. and ghmpeee of bedge-row —these were among the things thet she partly saw. and partly folt The children were at work in the meighboring hay-felds, and st play in the door yerds and their merry voioes and lsughter seemed to ber. as sne sat there alone. insolent almos. She was o bungry im ber soul. and in ber beart. and there was nobody in all the world to sy to ber that spe was nyhing to them The tears filled ber eyen, and sbe half wished the ground would opes benesth ber. and tht she might rest in the shadow of the grest ok tree for ever.

But gradually the quist of the soeme stole over ber—the moiny talk of the bay-makers became fainter and fainter, snd the lsughter of the chiloren d3d mot mock ber any more, ber bead slipped from the trunk of the tres, agninst whioh it hed leaned, and rested on a gry knoll, and directly, sieop, thet good comtorter of the poor, came to her, and i ber dream she was as gay and as giad as the best of thom. When she awoke, the sun was almost down— bank of orange. topped wih streo o lay along the west—the mowers, with seythes over their shoulders, were gomg bome: the farmer's boy was cslling to his cows, and whistling between calls and the birds were twit. tering their last fittle sieepy songs.

As she raised herself from the grass, some thing cold and bright shid down from ber bare neck into her lap. What oould it be? Swprise and joy made her doubt ber own eyesight t first—he must be st areaming. She oo up on ber feet and looked about ber; mo, she was not dresming, but wide awake, and there. glittoring in the grams, were three bright pis of goid—the same thet bad shd from ber wo to ber lap; she took them up in ber hand, but they d3d mot melt—they were rel gold dolinr. She bastity tied on ber bonet, and stooped to take up ber basket, but no basket wee hr the berries were gone—and the money bas been 1e tond. She had hardly ever in be life so much at one time, snd ber first thought was of the white aress snd pink ribbon. bet these were forgotten simost immedistsly feeling of wonder and ouriosty Couwd some good fary hawe brought ber this rere had beard of such tiungs. Put while e turned over in beor mind uns childish cone ture, she bagn. to dinoover igne of heving hed mortsl visitor during ber. siep. wigne whih her bewilderment had at first preventd from secing. A fo yards fron e which she had boon, dresing o yomore tree, r ui the gra bonent and hot . nd os hed boon whe she t down plod. boten. p l r of the tree, ad others tw

A borse bad bren tatoned re

--- page 2 ---
242

have had s rider—ber benetactor had been only a man aftor a. However. ber dissppomtment was not very sad, and became indeed snything but sad, when she saw. lying on the grase near by, a white cambric bandkerehicf, which she found to bear the initial letters of a name she knew right well—that of oue of the handsomest young men of the neighborbood. In fact, mo fairy's mift could bave made ber happier than she was, as she sat on the gras smoothing the hamaxerchief scross her lap, but in a dream, that was more a dream than she had ever had in a sleep.

The whole world was suddenly changed to her, it wes as if everything bad been made anew, all wos so fresh, so beautiful ; she seemed to tread on air as she went along. She had earefully hidden the han dkerchief in her bosom but she was a long way from the oak tree before she remembered that she had left the money behind. . She went back; to go back or go on was alike easy now, snd there in the grass at the foot of the great oak glittered the three pre. eious pieces. “I know," said Tressy, "where there in a big oak tree growing by the rosd-side, with a tall young sycamore a few yards from it.

“Do you," said Rachel, eagerly, adding, almost immediately, in calmer tones, “but there are a great many oak trees, you know, and the one under which this poor girl sst, can't possibly bave been any one that you ever saw! O no, that tree is a great way from this neighborhood." It was not likely," Theress replied, that she should have seen the tree, but what Rachel had said made her thimk of one she had often notioed. O no, you don't know the tree, mor the person who sat under it," answered Rachel, "and you mustn't think sts anybody you ever saw, or heard of."

“I know I must not," said Theresas, "and I don't, but what did you—I mean, what did the girl do with the handkerchief? and did she ever see the owner of it?" "Yes, that is what I was sbout to tell you. “Well, what came of 1t7? did they fall in love, and were they married ?"

TPoor child," said Rachel, speaking low. as one speaks of death—"the rest of the story is very, very sad. 1 don't know how to tell it, or to make you understand it, if I should it was all like a strange dream after that—the new dress and ribbon were bought and the silly girl wore them as she had hoped, and danced with the owner of the handkerchief, which was a great deal more than she bad hoped. As I said before, she had her own little vanity, and it was fed that day to her beart's content. Everyone oalled her so gay and pretty but the praise which was dearest of all, was what she should not bave hstened to. nor believed but she did listen, and did believe.

The young man weas handsome—above the girl in fortune, and position; and pride perbape helped to complete what vanity began at any rate, she learned to believe in bim, to trust him; to love him, in short. and thet mean everything 1 could say. 1 bardly know bow it was, but be overruled her will with his. no that it was just as if she had no will; and even when she folt in ber heort that he was wrong, it was all one, he had beon right. Thought of himove for bim, eolored every thing, the days that used to be so long sna

ns Reralnti

dreary, boome all at ppy the work thet used to be a was pow only a pastime.As she went sbout the house. she might be beard singing snd daily, when the shadows began to lengthen towsrd the sunset, she was sure to be found sting on the poreh. with sewing, or kmitting work—ber hair combed smooth. and her dress as fresh and bright se her best care oonid make it. And it was pot to listen to the birds, and not to look at the mesdows that she sat there. It was because the porch overiooked the high way. and because the young man would be sure to ree alongz. Sometimes, not often, be would stop and chat a little while. Sometimes he wouid tos her a flower, and sometimes only smile and nod but even though it were no more than this, she was contented, bappy, till the agproach of the bour when she might hope to see him agam.

One tbme it happened that she met him, as at evenmg she crossed the fields to bring home the cows, they walked and talked together 1 don't know what they said, wuch sweet trifies, I suppore. as young people. who are fond of h other, are likely to say. but what they not matter, for it wes, after sll. what was said without words that made the int rview so delightful It was not long before it happened that they met again. and sfter that came snother and another chance meetmg—at any rate, they were chance meetings so tar as the girl knew or suspectod—and with each succesmive one the lover grew boider, and the girl less vigilant; and so at length the last barrier was down, and the gap that ied straight to ber heart open and undoefended.

They found a bower under the tangled boughs or rather a bower made by wild vim es weaving the bonghs together, and drsgging them down to the green velvet of a turf that was thiok set with flowers—scariet and saffron—and with vioiots as small and tender as the drops of dew; all about the place there were pesce and sweetness, and the brght glancing of wings. And at first the girl would not go within the bower, tor when swhe bad parted the branches, she said “The light will not go in with us," snd why and balf afrad she turned awa;. Not 0, urged the Jover—for he was ber proclaimed lover now—If my pretty one will but go in. she with berself will hght up all the place, and we shall have no need of sun:"

Thus persuaded by his words, and vet more poteny by the e. tored the bower, but alas, the light would not go in with her, neither did she, with hersolt, make it ght as the lover had prom ied. The day lingered in the west, and the rose sha ied to purple, and the purple to brown and grey and then the moon came and looked down with reproachful face but the time of parting must come, and it 33 some t lat And you will come to-morrow" and the fittle bands were held so tenderly, and the eyss that looked down were so cloguent in thew pleading. “No, not to-morrow Then the mext day “No., nor then"

“The aay following? that will be to ster mity" Perbaps though the perhaps ought to be no. VYou bresk my besrt with perhape nd ough.Leove meves tht way ot yo will come, n y hot w wh

See the fowers yor promne I 334 not promise Baut you will! you do! Twe days swd he Parsdise—iet mesleep out tins gret gpof time BeA why o repet wnch contreversy h but ohe enm An they perie with the distimet promse and ngreeent to m again and siter the wht r or seemed to be so. became bebitus d o meetmg took plos withont as. pr ng witbout many kissn. Soch a secret is pot liely to be seoret very long, apd theiw's was mot discovery was of course followed by open soandsl and of ouree all the condempation ans dngrace fel upon the woman.

Old frends trested ber ooldly or ornefly ie show her bow much better they themsever were and not ove friendly vore warnod ber what peril she stood there has been but ome oc might have htened, and been saved. But harsh werds would 4o pe good. taunts and wmeers could mot wsl o belp ber—they who warned most ioudty 6 not ove ber—that was the trouble—sbe felt that. only that, ond the very truth they wrged so wagrciously was the swme ass ie. He was mep. proud, handsome, and whe was a poor work gir. He wonld soon tire of ber, snd oset ber off. and rightly enough she would be served at he wou1d e wed reckions fellow was mot going to reor al onoe, and whet was more, not going to marry the like of ber if be should she was s Bttle siumpleton to trust bim. and thet was the wery best that was a:d for ber. Why, be could bave. for the asking. the anughter of amy rich man of the moighborhood, any day snd was it ikely be wouid take her in preference. No, it wes not Likoly abe. for ber part, bad better suck to her distaf and she must have busband. look for one among ber equals snd he would not receive this good comnel she go where she would fare bettes

She did mot reeeive this good counsel— seemed to ber that she conld mot e and so went from bouse o bonse. nd rom piace to plaoe. ted l alie wi r or contempt unti ahe od get e pi Heor pride was stung imtn obtn er wt was bumbled. and e for the bumiliston and a ber hosrt hrsoned towsrds other. it woftened w be could do with wht be would The ol3 mertings were omly more ecret. t loe frequent. mot less conont an e asys wont snd came. thes feet wandered fur ther and further soros the dangorons bordoro forbi3en groun a

For a time those meotings wore loge happy. and they walked or t t m light, be wouid simg love omgn. whoh e so full of himself thet it womed a he hae made them. All the braght hew snd exos he wung of mesnt bor overy window hebt he wo prie w her and me pt f she fot thet be wes kinsing hea. wnd u But ms ot imge ove th p enough o y hey ot The lowes rew moody. eom prc and sometmes n bo toge heraty p be would saybei. not depondont o wh

--- page 3 ---
pers and songs, and sch like nothings for ber

And now the warnings that had at first been so diswegarded began to make themoelves hesrd; and this tme there was a terror in them that had not been in them before. They were not true—that was not possible—but then they were frightrul, o frightl to the friendie young girl! and stepped she never so hghtly. they began to come up sbout her m echoes out of the very ground. What could it sll mean? and where shonld she go for disenchantment, but back to her lover' She went at last, and with red, angry cheeks, and glowing. defisnt eyes told ham all that was sad of him. To ber eonsternation, to ber terror and despsair, he made no denial. The fiowers he used to break so carefully for her, he tore carelessly to pioces now, and sowed them about the ground. He was sorry his little wild bird bad mot been earher startled into chirping out this pews—not for his saks, oh no! but for her's, he might by his oonfirmation of it have put her on her guard

roed eet nt, no rt-

“But it is mof true You do not mean that ? you caunot mean that ?" Just that, my dear. “A jest, a cruel jest—pray do mot repest it!" Then be said it was not a jest—would to heasven it wereIt was true, all true—that was the pity of it. He would be honest for onoe, and tell her piaily that he was worse than his worst enemy procimmed bim. He would not try to make himsolf appear better than he was, he would adwise her (if he could be so disimterested) to believe all she heard aguinst him and more. It would certamly be the wisest and most prudent course for herself."

Then, perhaps, percciving that bis words had struek bome like so many desth stabs—perbaps —but I know not what moved bim, st any rate he sortened his tone and proceeded, as he alone were the mjured party. He had hoped." he said, taking one of the eold, helpless hands that had fallen smong his torn and scattered flower-leaves—hoped to find— hoped be bad found one who would not see bis faults, even when they were shown to her—such one he moeded to strengthen him, to help hin to do bettor—one who would love him, not becanse others loved and honored him, but beecause they did not.

Poor unworthy sinner as he was, he was not yet lost to every good feelng. God knew his heart, he loved her sincerely. She must save bim, or he was lost, for it she would not, it was all one with hum whether he was praised or blamed.

Ho could not understand how the cold calenlations of prudence could outweigh affection. r indeed have anything to do with it, but be perhaps was wrong—he certainly was. if bis ittle Puritan thought him wrong, for to disagree with her wak atways to doubt himselt. And yet, afer all, his love 1or her was not measured by her beauty. nor her virtues. divine as they both were, and no matter how much she might bring upon hersell the world's condemnsation. thet could not. by one single jot, alter his ffections. No. no, be must mdeed cling to ber all the more closely for the world's afienstion

Many tmes over. somethimg hke this acone was onaoted boiween them. but somebow, in spite of all the man's admissions and self acesations, he would contimue always in the end to make hmlpper ot oty the more jured, but amo the uer d pobler of e two. And so the poor girl, humbled and rebuked, would hide ber hoad in bis bosom, and weoop out her penitence and her shame. She

he Rerslntinn.

only felt thet to lose him was to lose all, ind clung to ber reed, with the desperstion of one who must eise go down. She only knew that think whither she was going. nor to what end. And when be kissed ber, told ber she was forgiven—though Hesven knows be had nothing to forgive—she felt such inward pesce and joy as nothing else could bave given ber. And yet she began to look forward to thew meetings with something akin to dread. In what mood sbomld she find ber lover ? for 5t was no longer oertain. Sometimes be would call himself the most unfortunste of men, and wish Hesven had crested him without a gurl's foolish heart in his bosom ; one that must needs take the impresmon of all the pretty faces he met.

The old tender epithets began to be omitted, and he would say, callimg the girl by ber poor. plain mame, that it would have been better for ber if she bad never seen him. And while be said s0, be somebow conveyed the impression. that it would have been better of he bad never seon ber. When they sepsrated one might, be simply gave his hand; he had atways tll then given s kiss, and exacted the promise that it should be returned at the next meeting. “Is this s117" snd the hand given so coldly was clasped very warmly.

O, I forgot," and then he stooped and kissed the upturned forehead very lightly. aimost care iossty. The shadows of premomition began to thicken now, and sure enough, the pext appointment was not kept, snd when an imtermew did come about he talked gaily of firtations. keeping all the while far away from the solemn facts of the case. He had been off fishing and shooting, and had bad, in fact, more demands upon bis time than he could name. He was sorry the giri had wasted any tears or even any thoughts upon him—distrust was pot worthy of her sweet nature. And then be talked of his evil stars, and said it was to be regretted that she had not followed the advice of ber frends, and the inclinations of ber own besrt, and left him to his fate long ago (To be continued.)

(To be continued.

atod for TE REvoLO from Le Droc a P e by Mr. FO L

Ma. A. Domas's son is prefacing his work, “Lami des Femmes, Woman's Friend" Mr Alfre Wolf bas alrbady made some extracis his article lin the Figaro. As these fragments touch-upon the cause we detend snd bave so much at heart, it 1s our duty to sey something sbout them Mr. Dumss's son hes, perhape justly. so much confidence in hamsel that be imagines his powser extends to all things. al boimgsHe does mot doubt but th t paragraph from hos pon. he will stop mtan taneousty the present movement im favor of Woman. Happily Mr Dumes's won is only man henee his word is ta dogms. Lake afl other mortals, be can only sdvance opimions. and we may a4d. his are not baed upon anything semous. his affirmations, slthough most solmnly sot down, sre pevertheless open to contredction and disoussion. In bi proface Mr. Duma's on dle t wo more be anciptd t h e thor boginning (origin) heve en man Where $n truth bas be studed history' Where bas

243

Afound thet ny particle of bumss comino r begining been tbiie i mane f and oWhet then progre. f mot modfiotion, contin ua ing of opiio. imstttios and iwWhy. smor the Dag ming of the world we scrutue. we oxpmine. we crite beets d dome. We y i oosantly man's consttuon we make nd w remsake his condtions, civd nd poloswe go back to the origin of be rights reon mever wearis in ber resesrohes whe berwet procisis thet she is mot imtallii rt what she onee decided consn ts nsture. of which she svows heving but fimited kno ledge. But when the queson of womsn's wjection i agitated, ope woud be ld to ppo that on this point, resson jumped at the trot at the first bounce, and had from the eet mever aciist in the ost What omeAn whe are judgen m this afir Why thowe whos interest it s to keep womsn in sulecon. Woman's inferiority has mo been proved. ae e mferiority is sartificial. imposed upon ber by the refussl of proper instroction. Whenewe favorable circumstanoes bave enabled wome to display thew faculties, they beve proved then power, intellect, often taking rank amons the brifiant and sound., shiming wtars oven in the exercimng of functions considered the most oppomte to ther characters ad tae—polin imstanor.

Now, then. capscity put aside, iet us conmder the question on its true ground. The reformeon we ask 3s nesther an ecoentricity mor e utopian ides. It is s logoal consequencn. the meceary unfolding of fundemental. undmble. uusccussle principsl, sooepted everywhere, wi.justioe, which we want to be more universal, mot oonfiued to half of the bumsn roe. but following the onwerd coue of progression. extond itsel to woman ale. Mr. Dumes's on, Woll and Oo. are of opimon thet the ontraneent of ive. the mp tion of pations. equality of the bumen reoe. are logally evolutions contrary to reason and truth they ae t t p and brains should have the me igh stromg man ofmtelitthet an ordmry hes the same anatomion as the high minded they judge these sheurdies thon may they mas cute us. if mot they bave mo ubtt ment upon which to oppose the emancipetion of women and in the opposing of. cot thomev. or ie they must prove thet we inn is mot humen bemg tht he h oith honor nors dicernment of good and evil. con equen ty t te t men without excepion Heore we would hpeot thet bunnls okmowidge wom ty when queston of onmton To ori p M Dome o p the bertime. but aoes pot the up the o of he prost. t ors and roin tht re Finsn meon pol . ave and opd. p hoDg ee md . ty houe ages The troth is thin. o lomg . by coing by be . may foree e t T i w To The firs eenn to e m g

--- page 4 ---
244.

nity of mankind is the power of sustaining one's sslf. The advoostes of this grest reform question are confined neither to s certain doctrine nor a certam seot, workmen, manufscturers, wise men, editors, ministers. The celebrated Stuart Mill, Hon. J. Bright in the English Parliament, and hosts of others. Alresdy in England have women the power to elect municipal counsellers. MARIA DERAMES.

DOT AND 1.—WOMAN IN THE LYCECM no. v11. Axn! neow you think of an educsted and refined womsan, upon an esstern lyoceum platform, charming by her eminently lady-hike manners, tasteful dress, pleasant voice and piquant esnays the fastidious gentlemen who shun the presence of most female orstors, from dresd of encountering one of those feartul creatures who are said tostride, soold and gosticulate Woman in the lyceum of the westers frontier is a different thing, but woman still.

Last Thursday evening. there were nine.een women present at the meeting of the lyceum, held in the log sohool-house, three miles from here. Grace was one of them, for the question of Woman Suffrage was up for discussion, and she was especially invited and appointed among the disputants—the first time a woman has been honored with such an appointment. I was invited also, with an offer of two horses and a sleigh to carry me there and bring me safely home again. But on Dot's account I could not think of it for a moment. Only with their sunt Grace, or with their father (still absent) would I leave the ehildren, and it was better every way, that Grace should go than that I should. I would as soon sdminister poison in some other shape ss to take my little ones into s crowd on a winter evening. Regular sieep is best for everybody, and it seems to me one of the insliensbie rights of children. But—will you believe it? five of the mimeteen women present were mothers, baving little babes with them, some younger than Dot! Every one of those five women, I believe, opposes Woman Suffrage, firmly belieung that "Home is womsn's sphere 1"

O consistency! One of those same women sometimes leaves four children under twelve years of age st bome slone, balf a mile from meigh ors, while she takes the baby and goo with her husband in the evening to roligions meotings This womsn's husband sssures me that if women ever do "get to vote," he knows that his “"womannever will go to an election. We shall see.

But the lyceum—it was gotten up by the young folks, and its President and Secretary are pupils of the district sobool. People of all agos take part in it, for evening entertain ments are soarce in this country. Everybody was awake to bear something on the live question" of Woman's Rights, and the lite sobool house bas mever been so crowded on any occa sion as it was that might. Three judges were appointed as usual. This time one man and two women, and the women both voted in the afrmative (for Woman's Suffrage) against the man's judgment. The srguments on the negtie. ul, took the form of propheey of evil sure to befall the family and gonersl sooiety, in oase the ballot should be given to women. Of course the Bible was mads s stumbling block.

The Rerslutis n.

Grace made ber “maiden speech." Tt is the proer thing now to tol bow she was dressed. but I shall not sttempt t, for can employ none of thelususl terms—en train,"decoflete corsaze,"“s ls Pompedour. and so forth. To toll the truth, Grace and I are such hestbens that we don't know what all those thimgs mean. Nor can the French dictionary nor Webster's unsbrdged give us a very clear ides. Here i. field for missionary labor. I tried to do an elder sister's duty by Grace. I labored with ber, less than an bour. to convinoe ber that her arguments would not heve the lesst weight with the "honorable judges," or with any gentemen present, if sbe did not wear s more womanly garb than is her wont She lsughed as though she thougbt me jokimg. 1I told ber she must remember every minute that she was a woman, and whatever sbe said or did, be sure that everything was done in the most approved womanly fashion. for the popular notion seems to be that womanliness is s thing that canmot be trusted to take care of itself. while s woman simply tres. in the way that comes most natnral to her, to e the great commandment upon which hang all the law snd the prophets. It was of mo use, and I had to confess to myself as I raw the brave gurl setting out on ber walk of three miles through the snow, that she not only looked very sensible in her short brosdcloth dress just four inches below her knees. and with her "trowsers" (cut much like the peg-tops," which the incorrigible girl declares are the most comfortable and truly artistic coverings for the lower limbs on ordinary occasions) laced for the walk inside ber balmoral boots—but she really looked very sweet and womanly! There was no necessity for the school-master"to take down the rasl-fence (as be dd) for Grace to pass in, when be escorted ber to the house where she was to spend the nmight after the Lyceum debste. It must havo been pure ohivalry, for Grace can climb foncen as easily as he. And Grace in that dress!And be opposed to her on the question of Woman Suffrage Perbaps, after all, when we get to vote"all the gentiemen will not oblige all the ladies to stand while they sit in orowded public places, though some men seem to entertain foars of such results.

Well, the debate held till after eleven o clook. and no one felt then thatt was over. It in to be continued st a future meetimg. Grace passed the night sieepimg on the fioor with a fair young heiress of the grest Tomity Church property., who lives nmear the sobool-house, while 1 4id what 1 conld for the csuse by leing awake with Dot on one mde and Birdie on the other. I had written an essay (by invits- Gon) gving plninly and concinely as 1 coul an affirmative argument for Woman Sufirage. and this was resd by a young girl who is cslled the best reader in school."

1 wa intorestad to see the question which is now working through the whole buman ciroulstion bresking out in thes apot. 1In it h, oe the same Divine promise of Equality and Brotherhood which has been apparent in all the mtory of the roe. pping ome one shape and sometimes m another. ad glow ing in this movement for the freedom of wo. man more itly th vr ore ho hike to see bow it all comes out, not Woman Suftrage simply, but the won derful bumss story of which that is but s mugle ohapier FAn Roon ———

Tas following from s venersbie and untrine worker in the camee of reform i publied bere for a purpose beyond what the writer imtea Young recruits in the army of progress a po know that New Engisnd. the Me and the Wost or tt o thi i Mp were won over to the csnse of Anmt-Sivery by iong years of far more wearying and vexstions isor and Giappointmets than o riend veals in bis letter. mot to pen of . marked the period as sMsrtyr Age"The isithful and persevermg orts of Mr. Gof to secure Mrs. Stanton a besring. will reonll to many an Anti-Siavery worker's recollecton. lecturers and others. the woomes of twenty an thirty yesrs ago. when sisve-botdmg wes the sin of the south snd fugtve sisve-bunting and sisve-ontohing were the biasting whame and dGigrae of the porth. But to ou le ter r.

Czpas Rarme. 1o7a. 9th April, 1870. Dxs REvoLomonMrs Stanton bas hed some recent unpleasant experiences in her loeturimg tour in this state. The osuse and owcumstances of which, wo far as I have been oonnected with and cognizant of them. may be of some interest.

Mr. Gerrit Smith Stanton, im hs letter to his sister (e Ro pae 16). p leading osuse of opposition to s mother free course"in ber efforts to enlighten the peopie. Politicans of both partes are str of ber; that in, of her swoness in efiecting woch enlightonment. The reasons of such fears wre sufficiently expressed im the lettor aluded to. But this will mever be owned up to by wmy member of the fratermity, “washed" or wewashed ;"beosune they cannot divest themwelves of every doubt as to into whose hands they may fall.

Who I am. and why 1 heve had suy oognnanoe of the perplexing expeorenoes of your e turer, ete., a few words will explsin. 1 m old man, well sdvanced in my seventh dernde o yoars, worn out and mrm. with exposures of pioneer life and the mevitable toil of the roughot. hart p of N York, Pennsyvamn. wndlows, wuonevely Have slways boen s Womans Raghts man simee your Editor and. Proprietor begen t tono the dootrines. Partly from hsving socopted the Golden Rule as docree of God ns perty from an experiene thet the auion ora t wome w the world meoded as mothers of on res

1 live ma mates from on O (Ca R and seveon miles from o county t M Have but sligt poro people of either ow. og are guite igmorant. in the m sion. motives and labors. And a the ome patriotie and too wesithy wne fn oin in igo County whd Tows Stnte When thorotor lonred tht pens. should bave the bonot of he lbor them. Ans mot boeving thet y one o county would wrie e A A t propose age r o to Ma. Curte at Ann Ao on the n we

--- page 5 ---
knowing thet I could only hope to sucoeed in arrangements for a lecture, by enlisting the interest of some persons in the towns to co-operate in, and patronize the movement. I knew also that I must lsbor under much disadvantage on account of feebleness of myself and a more feoble wife, and the great diffioulty of resching town often, when the roads were nearly impassable, and our home affairs occupying sll our aveilable strength, and very imperfectly cared for, at that,

I went to Marion, bad private business with an “Honorable" member of the bar, one of the most, if mot the most, influential man of our county; a very penevolent man ; a member of one of the most popular churches ; high in his professional role, and an aspirant to high official position. I have since learned be is Prosident of the Young Men's Christian Association. I asked if he would countenance a lecture by Mrs. Stanton. He seemed rather to pity me and fimally gave me quite an extended lect ure on the merits of the leaders of the movement., and of their principles and motives as well. He avowed a good many statements I could not endorse concluding with—"I am the best Woman's Rights man in this town ; and if you would today take a vote of the entire female adult popuintion of Marion on the question of Suffrage for Women, four-fifths would vote against it. And mow, Mr. Goff, if you wish to identity yourself with tius Suffrage movement, I will not discourage you—just wade in—wade in. I cer. tainly felt the meed of having a lecture from Mrs. Stanton, or some other strong, well-booked advooate, more than ever; and soon after made the aoquaintance of a few influential ladies who wished to see Tux REvoLUTION, and to hear lectures on the subject, and believed a good house would be secured, could we get the lecturer engaged. They were more sanguine than myself, as to the faculity of getting a suitable house and s favorable public endorsement , for they had not yet encountered the sneers and soandal of the real enemies of the movement—the politicians.

A week later, however, I found their inferest very much dampened and cowed, by the misrepresentations of the opposers. I still believed paying audionce would be on hand could we get the lecturer engaged, as I believed that cumosity would step in to make up for the defecticns caused by ignorance and prejudice. Subsequent developments more then satisfied me of my correctmess in that estimate. so stated to Mr. Carter. He wrote me that he bad forwarded our case to Mrs. Stanton at Mimneapolis, and believed she would lecture for us if other engagements left her at liberty to do so. and she would write scoordingly to inform us. Bot his letter mever reached her. So we were all loft in the dark, ontil the paper of 31st of March resched us, and then but twenty-four hours to the time of lecturing. (Received on the sfternoon of the 5th.) On the morning of the 6th (the day when the Marion lecture was to have been) myselt and wite resohed Marion. A lady, who slso had taken TaE REvoLTION. had a house engaged (the M. E. Chureh), had notices printed and sesttered over town, and had the lecture announced in the court (for it was "court week""), snd done all that could be done by one woman to favor a good hesring But one circumstance perplexed usthe social stmosphere wes murky with rumors as to the wheresbouts of Mrs. Stanton. Some bebeved her at Monticello, others thouht that she wes at Cedar Rapids and was to lecture there, and others believed she was in Marion.

he Revslntinn.

1, however, seoured a pasage by rafirond for Mrs. Goff and the notive lady sbove mentioned to go to Codar Rapids in search of ber. Within five or ten mimutes of the arrival of the trsins gentieman present says, I, this morning, sw Mrs. Stanton get into the omribus of the Americsn House st the Rapids—going to the depot to take the cars for this plsoe. Another said, She is st Stevens' in this pisce" banker Hving in a distant part of town). Os further questioning him, he "heard she was there,' and that was all he knew. 1I requested the ladies to t9ke passage for Cedar Rapids, while I called st the banker's, trusting that Mrs. Stanton would be disoovered by one or the other party, before the lecture hour. She was found at Cedar Repids, and was engaged to locture there that evenimg under the suspioes of the Young Men's Christian Association, having had no intimsation of the Marion appointment unt Taz RevoLuTIoN of 318t March reached her

To explain why a special train was sent from Monticello to Cedar Rapids for her. sud returned withou her, on April 5th, the friends of the canse who sent the tram will probably contribute the mecessary tacts, in due time.

And now I will tell you whst I found at Banker Stevens's, where 1 went to find Mra. Stanton. A lady, just from Cedar Rapids, who had seen and conversed with Mrs. Stanton the evening previous, was favorably impressed with her charsoter, motives, and sbitity as s speaker and champion of Woman's Suffrage. But she berselt would never thimk of $oting—would uever degrade herself by voting alongwide of s migger"Still she expressed some desire to hear Mrs. Stanton. Mrs. Stevens expressed still stronger denires to hesr and did pot seem to fear the "degradation," as did her guest, and sbe felt sure the house engaged for the leeture (at Marion) would be filled to a jem, so there would be no comfort in the lecture. She much regretted that sdmission bad not been fifty mstead of twenty-five cents—mot conmdering, I presume, that twenty-five cents saved. to many, who would be as giad to hoor as berselt, would secure to them s week's supply of bread. which could hardly be dispensed with for the most interesting lecture ever delivered.

E. P. Gorr —————————— woMEN vERSUS WoEn. — A PROTHST. Wa soknmowiedge mo inferiority to men. We clim to have mo lons sity to peror the u w imposed upon us, than they beve to pertorm hoe posed upon them We beneve tht God hes wisly and wel. nap wes the proper perTormane of the a We belteve our tru t e porat my thet enint on r We foel ht or present Guties up the whole m wre of ont time and abilitio and ht they none but oursev e can portorm

Thetr mporian p forts to compel u to aeme hose bgon w ouo be pard o w be perormed by w. wt me , To , . prenet t O 1ove . Our u , Onr o w We r o , , hom, 1 the o , o, e possy e. wre We a. p, prt

245

fon to Woman's Su . in y p o The sbove paper. migned by more the ome undred ndie of Lorin outy, w pre March 14th, 1570, to the iogintre emi at Columbus, Ohso. That somany signed is pot stremgs, beonse the on pop p sent.Yeurs henoe, when it sall be oustory for womsn to vote, 5tis questionsbis whether the lsdy who drew up this dGocument would beve many supporters.

1f we are not inferior to men." we must have a clear opinions snd good judgment they. To say. them, thet we are not opatle of miging of poiosl questions. i unroe. To say that we are not mierestod i suo thingi absurd. for who can be more snxious for god laws and good lew-makers than women. who. for the most part, have sons and dsughters to send out into this whiripool of temptetion. called social and business lite. If we are to0 i et to e opo own door. This is undountedly often trme, and it is to be hoped that future yenrs will rectify such a condition of things.

These 1adien renson upon the promises thet and for which be has wisely and well adapted esch sex," as we find them in this close of the nineteenth century, are the dutie, conditions, and relstions establibed of God. Two things we-do certsinly find in the Bible with regard to this matter that women s to bear chudren., and mes to earn brend. The fir duty we believe has been confined entirety to the female sex. but the mile sex bave mot hept the other in all oases. 1f anybody hes belonged for any considerable time to a benevolent insttution. he bes - certained that women sometimes are obliged to carn bread snd best children also

A century o two ago. when women seldon or nmever thought of writing books, or being physican or lewyers, profensors or toh er, or doing mything but house wor. probebly they thought they were in the same biensd noonday of women' enhgbtenment and bappines, te indo of Li ot - Their busbandn. very likely. meoded sometne of the sme Sompanionsip s the men of the present t tw ppi o sohool but litte. Al the time must e give t spimning swd sorubbing. or doimg uying that the mind was motlumbered wp.” with eene phop Wht w t w Only grow up cha. er u lost in him

The Jowish women, with some rr an be tiflencepon. b yory ir po from the women of to-ay. snd yrt they wre Gods per peoThey ound cor arew weter tor mon o me they wuppose to be Gods pine coni thom 1s t mot harely poi. aon i oy not exnty png t a t e p ap. whether we A wh has imponed upon un

ee . 00 men. w lg y ns broe in t shall sa, f possiy i prote ge A

--- page 6 ---
246

to posterity, what reason had those good prople to say that the golden heights for woman had beon geached ? That with all our duties now known to us, we must bave stopped m the mineteenth oentury while be saw the other half of humanity going higher and gher, to find what God would have them do? We take our cares and duties and privileges as they are, but have no mght to say what God has for us, unless we have a special reveistion on the subject. That our present duties fll ap the whole measure of our time and abihties"ocan be said only of a part of the sen

The wives of the werking men spend nearly, or all their time in rearing large families, and by prudence and thrift, helping to ewrn lttle homes. They have just as much time to vyote as then busbands, probably it might take one half hour m the year. They have just as much time to hold office as their husbands, for their busbands seldom or mever hold offie, and mever want to, for they cannot afford it. It does not pay to serve on a jury if one has eight children to feed, and the good sense of the community does not allow such men to sct; meither would it such women. They could become as well informed as their husbands. Spending one's evenings at saloons does not tend to incresse

culture any more than making baby's aprons, and would it not be an improvement to sll coneerned if the busband would resd politicst to his wife as she sewed, and thus incresse the intelligence of both? In the well-to-do class, the present duties of the women are such as might easily give piace to something better. Those who have small children, even now find time to read movels, attend parties, and be out mearly all night as often as they wish. They are able and bave servants to care for their babies, to do their work, and what do they accomplish? They make tidies. and sofa-pillows, and go calling, and riding, and have a good time generslly. 1f they do pot have time to vote, and make abundant preparstion for it, then who does?

There are moble women, and perhaps all the memorislists belong to this clas: God bless them, if they do! we know some of them do, whose bands are full of good works. who look fter the poor, the uneonverted, and the tallen. and when they die, carry home the record every true womwn should. 1f woman's voting is to do go0d to the country, they ought mot to overlook this good work any more than others; mdeed i its results are to be good it ought to be wrought out for the master. If these ladies, after careful study and thought, beheve that Woman suffrage will work evil in the 1amd, they onght to say tht, ther than base it pon lack of me The onfranchisement of 15,000,000 women will be a balsnce of power for good on evil, that will certainly need looking after

What obligstions there are which cannot be seperated from Suffrage without sacrificomg the higot itee of fe too obtuse to aee. The only obligation really binding seems to be, 1o become sufficiently inteligent to know how to drop mto balloton pper w e mame of the best candidste upon it. With s litle more inellgence on the part of the mejority of women, we think the highest imterets of the family would not suffer meterisity. t intol wence will make wociety any worse than tis mow, by sll mesns et us go geck to inantile i nornos. 1we must go to war fwe vote, there will perhaps not be women wanting volunteers by

ht Reinti thousnds, as there were in the last war. ond when property lsws are so arranged thet the women shall have the right to control balf of what they and their busbanos together earn, they will have as much money with which to brre substitutes as the men.

If we must be nominsted for offer if we vote. perbaps 1t would not dispiease the men to bave us dectine all such sppoitments in their faron. 1f we feel that there is a lack of propriety in being mayors, judges, legisiators. etc., if we have homes and prefer t stay in them, as most of us do. we see no objection in quietly refusing wuch honors. We nerd not be troubled. Exoept in rar mstemo. gretmes has mever been thru-t upon people

If women have loisure and talent. and desire to fill such places, no very cogent reasons bave ever been presented against it. One woman has already become a mayor, and I bave not beard that the foundations of the pisce have been shaken thereby. If the ladies aforesaid cannot ote without the bighest interests of thew famhes bemg sacmifioed, they ought to be allowed to remain m pesce.

It bas been shown of oourse a thousand times that all cannot be represented by husbands and fathers. There are some women whose fathers bave gone up to Hesven, and others for whon mo busbands have ever been sent down from there. Then it sometimes happens that s busband and wife, if they bave sny brains or individuality, do not have the same thoughts upon the same subjects. For mstance, be might think to be the husband of ope wife, the cream of existence she that polygamy is the gate to paradise. Be might tumk slavery was nght and proper; she that all are oreated equal. My observation, not my experence, has taught me that our busbands sre mot always one with us." snd our sons re not always “what we make them.

Thave known hundreds of mothers who prayed over and lsbored for their sons day and might ll society took them and rumed them. 1 believe the mothers very generally do ther duty at home, but we want thew infivence to resch out io the saloons and bouses of ill-fame. 1 do not see any need for representstion in the corn-field! If the man is not able to care for his field alone, let the wife help him. provided ber arms are mot full of children m the bouse. I1f he bes been careful of ber lest she be broken down early in life by, oftrecurring maternity, she onght to be. just as ocareful of him.

We do object to such dvimons of labor as 1wbefore our door last summer.A stont Germen wes loading a cow s she at gra. while m wom w rpity um fillimg a waggon with the same. He sauntered loiurely long tor the cow to mo er fo The woman oocsmonally strsigtoned up bet body wiped the perspiration from ber face, while be took ont bis pipe. lt delionte ourl of moke acond imto the ai, looked t her approvingty and lot ber go to work agnin. 1 think this more thn Womn Ri. thogh wol he o o t ti i t pt ing business.

As for our representing ther at the Srenide rent pl t y be there in porson. Nothing i more blossed than the hoe ireie d ore i bands were ot o reprted wivo. while hey wore ing onmportant business, the condition of things would be smproved. If women at the

oo, the by the instroction, make thor imnm upon the government. ae they would they woted. we would have oing ore . t e presont any. how imoompte y toct ther cilar e primpies of e publosn govermment. md t them for the plene they should be ae to oopy in There are s few exneptions. I bad s reintve who, beng s whig, snd her busband s dome by ber influenes. Sbe and ber busband weee never divoroed

1am gisd thes indies mede th protost not only becsuse this county whers hon est views ought to be expressed., but beoruse agitstion pusbes forward reform. 1I am gid that pearly balf of our representatives were in tavor of submittng this guestion to the women of the state. 1 am gind our mterets were so sbly aefended by a telented representate rom our t 1 do not thmk. bowewer. by submittmg it to the women, they would gets oorrect expresion upon the subject A good many would vote for it. a few against it, and toousands would be afrid to vote. or moferent to it. If it granted, I do mot suppose al women will vote immedmtely. Manmy presudices will first have to grve way. If women vote whet they wish to vote, and there is mo dsorderly conduct st the polls m cons quenoe, and mo gemeral disorder in the body polition, 1 de mot see any objection to the thing bemg contmed from yoar to your. 1 beheve in due time be men will grant it to us. but the change i so novel they can hardly concede it just yet.

When women like Miss Jones of our oity. now in California, take s fow more profesor ships in a universuy over a hall bundred competitors. write s few more Wbraries, show them selves capsbie of solvimg grest questo. become ormaments to their profesmons n ence, it will seom more absurd for thom wot to be enfranchined than it done maw for thos to be so. SaAnan Ewowr Bouron

forrign Correspondrur.

TTE . MANT Ap. 1870 NEws FRON W CAT

Ax interesting letter bas just beon reed from Miss Mary Carponter roportmg progro im her work of promoti eduost women in IndisShe writes trom Bombay which she bas made he ing the few exiwtng gorls wobools to be wery a ficiont in every way. Mis Carpenter hae pr posed to her Hndoe tronde thew asstance. model sohoo i orde. h says, to give thom an de wt w eduostion. Tiis offr has boen ory cepted. and gontioman. bes lomt he uitable oue. pl o p Tih sohool is t e apenes a Bombay earty Mar r it. for the firwt wo Me Crpe a wit e h M barcot, ott Thi pie mon cht, qte o Brme Som Th prosi A p e i T

--- page 7 ---
formerly lived at Hydersbad, in Scinde, snd had been sactive in promoting the educstion of women, wisiting the prisons, and establishing Theistic worship in that place. Miss Carpenter attended the Brahmo Somsj st Ratnsgirl. The congregation wes small. but serious, and Mr. Maduk conducted the service in s most devotional manner, often quoting the teachings of Christ. “In Bombay," Miss Carpenter says, “the Theistic worship of the Brabmo Somsj continues to be held at Dr. Abnaram's. This gentleman deserves every mark of sympathy that can be shown to him. He has lately been excommunicated for sympathizing with a widow re-marringe in Bombay, but be has not lost any of his moral influence in consequence. Thedore Parker's writings are much read among the members af the Brahmo Somsj. The last week of 1869 was spent by Miss Carpenter in Abmedebad, in Guzerat, where she was rejoiced to find that Miss Chamberlaim had been working most earnestly and successfully at the girl's school established during Miss C.'s former visit. Some of the young native women are being trained for teachers under the care of Miss Chamberlain with the best results, present and prospective.

Miss Carpenter concludes her lettor with the following interesting and suggestive snecd ote On my remarking one day that a Mahometan Judge of the Small Causes Court, at Surst seemed more courageous than the Himdoos, and that I supposed it was on account of bis race. a young native barrister exclaimed, No, it is not on account of his beimg a Mahometan that he is more courageous, but because he has become a Christian. I afterwards asked him the meaning of this. He said that the moral standard of Christianity and the sense of duty thus enforced are so much higher than those of Mahometanism or Hindooism, that the professor of such sa religion must be more courageous. Yet he cannot embrace Christian ity, and multitudes feel the seme in Indis because they cannot believe in revesled religion, or in miracles."

THE EDUCATION OF WOMEN I TTALY. The ladies of the Internstional Association heve petitioned the Chamber of Deputies at Florence in favor of establishing such schools and colleges for women as may be suitsble to the requirements of the age. THE LAST SHALL. BE FIRST.

While the Education League is discussing the merits of Mr. Forster's system of Nstional Edocation in this country, and while denominstionsl" diffculties are distracting the minds of educationsts in Protestant England, the towns of Bologna, Falti, and Cesens, in Itsly, have abolished catechistic religions tuition in all public schools. The resolutions of the Communes declare that the rights and duties of ocitizens shall be taught instead of the mysterious catechism. UNITED EDVCATION BEST. mentioned m a former letter that the Sehool of Arts in Edimburgh has beon opened to women. This is the first wosmion under the mew arrangement, and above sixty female students have already been enrolled.

A memorisl has just been prosented to the rte of the mtt ion urig thom, in mek ing wome projeoted anges, to give the Nohool of Arts a prominent mite, and to allow suffoient means for its furthor development. As it mow working women's s well as working man's college, it is probable that more sxtended

h e ocom odstion will be nmeeded in future. In the course of a few years, it is move then likely that the male and female students will astend in sbout equal numbors, as is the onse in several of the working peopie's colleges in London and elsewhere. The memorial was signed by sbout seventy femsle students. There was a similar memorial from the forme and present male students of the School of Arts. Thus to enlarge existng schools and colleges 50 as to admit of thew receiving students from the bitherto excluded balf of the ppulation, is a much superior pisn to that of founding special schools and colleges for girls and women.

There are three main advantages to be gnined by umted education 1. It is better morally and intellectuslly for the boys and men 2.1It is better inteliectually sud morslly for the gaurls and women 3. It is more economical. We learn that seversl female scholarships are likely to be founded st Cambndge. I have aiready mentioned thet under the Endowed Schools bill of last session "provision is to be made, as far as conveniently may be, for extending to girls the benefit of endowments." A society bas been formed in London to md in carrying out the directions of this clause. Miss E. Borham Carter is the Hon. Secretary of the Association.

Lord Shaftsbury, the Premdent of the Femsle Medical Society in London, has promised to preside at the mext meeting of the Victoris Debating Society. The paper and dascussion will be on "Medicine as a Profession for Women." LADIES AMUSEENT. This is the title of an article in one of our serals from the pen of Miss Cobbe, in which the following interesting passage oocurs

The philosophy of relaxstion, as everybody knows, i not the mere stopping of one ting, 1 doimg. nearly as may be, the opposite thing The miller's borse, which, baving to go round all the weel from right to lett st bis mill, went round of bis own secore on Sundays in bis peddoch from len to right, hit on pre cinely the true principie of all relsxstion. Accoraimgiy. therefore, as the physicst inferiority of women will siways make the manusl lsbor walusioss comparstvely to that of man, while their mentsl powers permit of much nesrer competition, we must expect thet ss the isbor market gradusily opens to them more trely. will be almost wholly among sedentary employments they will and thetr tashs. Amon qdoub ess. such s work will be chiefly of an imte sort—the organistion of charitis, marcsntile socounts. the profession of medicine, arts and literature. Ancord ingly, the compiementary solor of suob busy lives will be made up by smusements ss much as possible pot of an imtellectual or sodentary ind. Further. the inne tive prererence which will thus be t for ou-0r relaxation and muscular re. will be tonally strengthened by the over-growing sense of the mecesity of mproving the besith and vigor of wom from its present misersble svorage. The condon of ieongpatot ot o recogid o o . make them. it us say. hoperl convlt, y o w cine excending evon what Enghsh country hae ever known. snd quite revoluionining the ves of Fronch women, Halisna, Germans. and Americans

Among woh hesith e , thet gardon ing wi hve probly the p is at oe Saxons beve thorougbly proved our power to e, an enereine whih brings overs muncis into play i po 3n y e oy p e te of gue. The tr men and Sowsrs is se srong, o tew won of ny

247

atory wor ll e aone y w, curo i o wy pt om. m Many bundrede of Engiin 1n6 wor from coi ihetr Gays in their own gstens. ond. heing few own e , yy ow w $010 more than thy te omoT of my i under e ruie of Booto wot. Bot wom of the umier cie tht to gam ber bres by Soimg precissly what thee s ao from choioe though boy many would reoe quit Greary coo oome woroos t the same, Hesven sione can tsl

As o substituts $o7 gerdening. f would anem as i the more delicste kinds of carpentery. wons rimg. turning with s isthe snoult come by ane by te e range of women's smusments. The proowciion of egant and useul rticies i wood ad ory. delightiul (and wmost sconomicsl foility of repsiring small bousenois aater, an g p ornaments without the everissting referenos to a. men, would sfiord enjoyment to numbers of oie Toim ote e wardrobe pogs, making s picture me or prety Do of chess-mon. an resoitly oewing on the o1d mower's arm-chaw. in Beu of Sacimg t beada, and silks, and cottons for wereoms mever to be used, and ant macassars which become the Purdes o existonce. Osthorine the Grest, the only womes whe ever recerved the tae. an wo mig beve been oulint the Grest Simner." kept ber Sugers often out of mis ohief for some Bours by turming wory bosee ne better women migt p rater than i mmy of hoe o wuguet the queory.. Is t ponsinie e toyp ken into their pay that grest iwetor cosrtnd or aways ondius someting for 30 ans t Ridimg. arvimg. wwmming. rry. roet, aown to pumble and juvenie, but with oog piring, t o i the cin which it is to be hoped will yess betom more populsr, while there will be a proportionste dechime of mabion in bemigne, soroticn, potiom ana a tht w o . o simce the only mcy Gipig ot sion thet the periormenoe iwork" in suy sense of the word.

Of ooure, ere w w of room for wimier sedentery wuets Pt toney f t ig (or thero o purely play o or only prosuoue of o om p n3o5 har- or (o ri i p W mec t , orontic A wl iit i am ber with prtty r Will mc change a we e or p out of wom p than 1 t pree . ct preii o ri offre trt lves o Dim. and ann A tor Trevelind o y aying D

1.t wh a o with c p o Aro During the past weok umber of p on t wulpet have pre mentBristo sent one wt ov

Very buly yours,

ain p unde themaeives they justary t

--- page 8 ---
248

he Hrnolntisn.

PUBLISHED WEEKLY, $3 A YEAR. NEw YoRE CrTY SUBSCHPTIONS. $3.20. ELIZABRTH CADY STANTON, Raiter. PAULINA WRIGHT DAVIS. Cor. Eator. SUSAN B. ANTHONY. Proprieter.

OFFICE, 6 EAST TWENTY-THIRD ST., N, Y

NEW YORK. APRIL 21, 1870.

ADITORLAL CORRESPONDENCE.

CEpaAn RAPIDS, lowa, April 7, 1870. DaAn REvoLUTION: A chapter of accidents. Left Clinton at five o'clock in the morping to reach Montecello. Arrived at Cedar Rapids st eleven, and reccived the plessing imtelligence that the train had gone. There are two features of railroed travel in Iows, most surprising and bewildering to the innocent traveller. 1st. The roads run generally in parallel lines, never lookimg at or shaking hands with esch other, and orossing from one to the other involves dreary mdes in the most hope less looking stiges man ever made, fording creeks. sailing on rafts and stopping places fit only for the lower animals.

24. Where there is a cross-rond, wisch is rare, it mever runs with the slightest reference to the main rosd, but obstinately on its own hook, as the managers of the different routes take a malicious pleasure in snnoying esch other, never seeming to think or to care for the delays and disappoimtments that fall on bapless men, women and children. Finding myself shut up with bad rosds, floods, no bridges (Towa has an antipathy to bridges), 1 decided to rest at Cedar Rapids for a few days and spesk one evening there. But no soomer was I comfortably ensconced st the American, which by the way is admirably kept. s woman with brains being the head of it, than my son telegraphed me from Monteoello, where be had hoped to meet me, that 1 must come there, that he bad engaged a special train.

Being informed that the special train would leave at six, 1 was ready st thet bour, but the conductor being drunk, had gone off an bour before, and was anxiously enquiring for me at overy stopping place along the line. At the end of the route a large sudience wuited my coming. My son and lyceum managers tolegraphing., "Where is the train ?"Whers is Mrs. Stanton 7At the other end. tood red. disgusted, indignent, replying. Here 1 am, but where is the train ?"At eight o' clock, as no train returned, went back to the hotel. bag and bagange (in a good state of mind to say damn ), while the audienoe at Montinello dpered at 9 o'clock, cursimg all womsnkind My son overbesrd groups bere and there say. Just like a woman ;" "never can depond on them"

Tleane remember, dear sirs, that sueh are the results of your own management. Women have mot one word to say about railronds. stages, bridges. When we bave, oh, whet order and barmony will reign With sober women for engineors and conduotors, there will be no smash ups mor running off before they are sent Wheon the women of ows vote, there will be deent roads and bridges, and trains in friendly rols-

not isy on the shelf

Wednesday morning dswned bright and besn tifnl, and as my son joined me, we pamed pleasant day together, making plans to resch Iows City. With maps, guides and maoy counsellors, we had two routes under consider tion. One route, thirty mues by tae, roads, an all day pull through mud snd swollen gers witho baggagA oovered carmage was at our servioe for $35 to be paid for on starting. with no promise of resching there. and oould not take a trunk. Ou the otber hand. sixty miles railrond, with s broak in the middie of ten miles staging snd three on a raft across the lows river. As my feithful travelling conpanion, my trunk, could join the party on this route, we decided on the istter. and aocordimgiy. at the appointed fime, we went to the depot. got tackets, checks, walked, chatted with that semse of rehef people feel after deciding a puszling question. In due time, by the bustling among the depot offcisls, we learned tha the tram was off the track thirty miles sway. and would be two hours lste. To resch the Rock Island route we bad not balf an bour to spare, so bere was another cold shower, $300 out of pocket in two days, snother ssppointed audience, and more ansthemas on all womsnkind. Back aga to the botel, to start in the might-train for Batavis, Ill. where I am sadvertised for Saturday evening. This time I shall give the trains twenty-four bours for balks, sulks and sll manner of perverse and contrary behaviour.

Although my usually placid soul bas beem so terribly tempest-tossed in Ceder Rmids, yet canmot be insensible to the fact that this 1ss fine towr, pleasantly situsted on the banks of the Cedar river. It boasts 6,000 imbabitants, some of the finest brick residences in the state and is the headquarters of Jonn J. Blais, the railway king of the west. The wiew. from my windows, of the mver, now much swollen by the fiood, has been a constant plessure to me, dsncing. sporkhing in the bright sunshine all day, and in the sweet mume of its rush ing waters whispering notes of tenderness and love all might. Nature is beautiful, slthough mankind are so perverse E. C a

THE APPROACHING ANNIVERSART —

Too much cannot be thougnt or said of its importance. And t5 bigh ime he who to attend it should be making their arrengements, especially those who have far to travel, and those who expect or wish to take sctive part in the proceedings. The momentons im portance of the osuse stael hould wake al that is nmoble, boly and just in every bumss heart. Onoe it was thought thet po such enter prise ever before strred the world s Anb. Siavery. Till thet bour, probably ne other oo terprine ever did o ever oou1d present ronge claims. A m i tGonal., responsible, immortal, to be seined stolen, sold inte brute siavery, ass brute. as beast, and his children afte him through e c o mule and onttle reding were oaied o t same town, on the same farin. by the same moans, and for the same purposss, by demo orets and. Fepublio, y churc mee descons and ministor, and hy women, . well s by mon. the yte upported y state, sanctified by the shurch beid and gunrard

by the swords and bayonets of the one, an haflowed by the sermons snd sacraments of the other for almont a contury, and unti the wietims hed inored to o miio, i demoorstic and christian oountry on the gioe surcly the world never hed witnened so ub a orusede as that first wet on foot by Elizsbe Heyrick to rid bumanity of this its dirent ourne

Ours was the most guilty nation on the giobs. and its punishment has been in some dogree proportonste to ts guil. And the prios pd for liberty was mot 490 dear. No price is to0 gret to pay for liberty. What is hfe without t" And yet t is beld, no mstter whe firet . or to whom ssd. thet all that s man heth will he give for his life. What, then, sbouid be pot give for liberty? The French Revoluton, with all its terrors and massores. was worth al t oost. The Ameriosn Revolution acheved much History mow forgives, almost forgts. failures, even thew terrors. in remenbranoe of the good they wrought. So., t90, of our latest wer. It was frightinl m oont of hise and tressure snd in weslth, too, dearer than hfe or gold, but the whole mation to-day rejoioes that the curse of chettel sisvery is po more. And our sorpture mow might resd. s written in blood on s thousnd battie-e. A that a maton bath will it give for liberty

And yet to woman. as woman, kitberto. blood and life sacrifioe bas been of no efer Taxstion without representation was as grie ous to the Marths Washingtons of the United States after the Revolution snd under Pre sident Washington, as to the George Washingtons before the Revolution under Geoorge HL. in the British oolomes. 1 men were taned without representation before the batles of Bunker Hill and Brandywine. women beve been ever simoe, and are tawed . I, under and punished by lsws wthe making of which they bad no vote, mo woie, a7 women wve unto this bous in our bossted and bossting re public

1f the ballot is imwninle, mpl t the security of the frend man in the Tull enjoyment of bis freedom and pursuit of bappies. must be equsily w to the freed woman whe i to hve under the wame governmeont, be t equally for its support. obey the me lwa. o suffor the seme penalires

And what is true of the colored women this respoct. is alike troe of every wom in the mation high, low. rich. poor, lenrned. ignoret. virtuous. vicous. all sre equally proscribed until the mosnest. mowt bruts man oeig suprome. over the moblet women whe ar p The verod ineguey. tricked out in whitetopped boots. pols n and cookdes bat. with ot p r ont pi mioire Centr Park. . i the ovr of Presiaont irt. wh e her weslth. wirtue. enlture andp menta, 1 but the por o the pooie tht ses t her iAnd On p lity eciare they are w 1t is owen i Obie women h Women Sufge inture. Ne wonde row fors and revilor i shop aoo, tht womes don Eno ot t sobs.

on thone

--- page 9 ---
ost reasons fors full sttendance on the meetings in Msy. It is known that an effort is making to unite all the friends of Woman Suffrage if possible, under one broad, harmonious Ameroan bannmer. That effort has revealed as could not have been snticipated, that fhe friends of Woman Suffrage are multitndinous everywhere, beyond what the most sanguine could have believed. Their letters have come by basketsfull, literally, some signed by one person, some by families, some by the of local societies, and others by neighbor and villages, like petitions to Gongress, and most of them declare themselves not only in favor of Woman Suffrage, but also of the proposed, or a similar union, to basten the socomplishment of the object. The tide of voices from the west, beginning at the Pacific ooean (Peaceful ocean), and climbing the Rocky Mountains, greets, joyfully, Wyoming and Utah, where woman has already been invested with the ballot, at onoe the pledge of equality snd soeptre of authority ; and taking courage from thew exsmple, sweeps eastward across the broad valley of the Mississippi, and over the Alleghanies, louder and londer, like the noise of many waters, it demands peace and union, and a Sixteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution that shall lift all womankind in the country from its present poodle-dog level, Oberlin women and all, to the side of its colored coachmen, who, by the Fifteenth Amendment, are made (and not too soon) the equals of presidents, senators, judges, generals and admirals, or whoever, or whatever bears rule in our republicsn realm. Let him or ber who has ears to hear (not ears merely for ormament), bear, and be governed accordingly. P. P.

FIFTEENTH AMENDMENT CELEBRA- 11ON8.

Tuzy have been many, but not too many; joyous, but not too joyous. Everywhere, we hear of them, East, West, South and even North; for Canadn bas colored populstion, omoe slaves of republican, democrstic, christian and even clerical masters and owners; and though as British subjects thew gam nothing by the Amendment, sull they are men and women, and share the joy of those in whose sorrows, as slaves, they onoe mingled. And from every one of them so far, whether in New York, Philadelphis, Washington, or the small country towns and villages, there comes but one testimony. from foe and friend alike, and that is, that everywhore they have been sober, temperate, orderly and m every possible respect as well con ducted as though composed entirely of the oldest, wisest, most law-loving and law-abiding citizens in the community or country. Indeed, it is doubtful whether so many public out-door and in-door observances of such varied kind were ever held in the same space of time over one and the same event, with so little to deplore. 1n all this, the old and true sbolitonists rejoice bot are not surprised. They would have been surprised at any other result or manifeststion. It wan just so when liborty was proclaimed in the British West Indies. Many planters took couneil of their fears and their foolisbneons and fied the islands, as though their day of finsl judgment was st hand, and they anticipated their doomBout the iberstod myrinds repaired to their churohes and sang and shouted the joy in songs of gratitude and praise to God. Their exorcises were eminentty relimons thousand times more so than here, for which

a Reslntin. and beooming. That would bave been impossible.

It seems srange that o meny oditors should continus to fling thew iow and vuigar siang at the mewly created citizenship, which surely. so far, reflects mothing but bonor on itsel, and respectability and oredit on our republican imsitutions. Delirium tremens is known to be s torisl possibility trom which peither poltiosl party ciaims entre exemption, but the suooessor of Jefferson Davis shows no ptom of that dire disene.Nor does amybody fonr tht be will ever lead off in s firey crusede of secession, rebellion and war against the government of his country. A little more modesty towards the colored people on the part of many democrate editors, would be very becomimg, ss wel in view of the present as the past. . .

CoLonrnos Corzp. —It has always been beld incurable. Hydrophobis was hoperul compared toit. The Colonation Socety, thirty years ago. tried Christianity upon it. in allopathic doses, and declared it wholly inefficacious. And so it invented Liberis, and made haste to put the Atlantic ocean, with all its winds and waves, betwixt the megro and its nobility. Only the free megro, bowever, was thus offensive, obnoxious. A rose by any other name would smell as sweet, but not so the black mian, or womsn. As sigves they were sweet ss Baltmore belles, or any other roses; but free. who could bear them ?As slaves they could travel anywhere, any way, by land or sen. They and their masters or mistresses could oocupy any saioon or drawing-room, car, steambost state- Toom, or imside of stage coach, with the lapdogs, parrots, pet monkeys, or whatever stock, goods or chattels were necessary to the owner's convenience, comfort, or plessure; but as free they used to ride in what was called the "Jim Crow car," into which no white person was permitted to enter. I have seen Frederick Dougiass driven out of the common cars into the Jim Crow car. 1 bhave seen colored men ss well dressed, as well educated, and as well bebaved as the President, or any of the Directors of the Railrond, driven out of the respectsble and comfortable carrmges into the Jim Crow oar ("COorens Jucobi,' my old frend Natbaniel Peabody Rogers used to latimize it), and when 1 went into the same. partly for the sske of good socety and company snd partly to testify prectically agninst such proscription, bies me, i the conduotor and brakemen didn't come snd arive me out agnm. back smong the white volgarity, masculine snd fominine, that grimned and gingied at the shamerul transaction, and oepeciafly at my part in it

But pow another cure is disoovered for the torrible malsdy. 1t bas aiready cured republcans, mearly to the last man, and demooracy is rapidly recovering. The-black man is smoimted with the ballo, and the poly Hebrew off was nmot more efoacions. It purfies him so wuddenly and so cortamly of all those qualsten thet re dred is vory appo r ble white c, Colonaon Somety oartier Reports), o dnger ous, if mot fetal, thet siresdy the demoorstic odtors and polii o far Fecovering to render 5t sure tht colorphoia. ie Jud loprosy and possesson of devla. wtobort London plagns, will soon toity dippe Even the Detrost Union. mo ig of the dire denne, mow sings wooh sons of deliverance as this below

249

— o $0 pp y e o . hgt, ere we ot ingat m, t nere in he ou oring f wo t o rt t ri o te That is the way the colored peopie in Detrot oeirted their elewnton t full ctp der the Fiteenth Amendment, and t i way democratic oditors report them. And eactly the same good thing happened in s gret many other piaces, as the meweps pers showed

LECIURE ON ANERICAN HUNORISTS

Mas. Loums Booes DEwt hes beon siresdy mtroduoed to our resders as the able and of ve vioepreident of the Souyler Oty Woman's Suffrage Association snd also ss the late Prcfpet of the Oton Femeie Liry Institute. The Chuton papers spesk in the highest terms of ber socomplishments as faithfu) and wmocessinl tescher and of the rieh presents made ber on ber retiremont. by ber spprecistive pupils. Mrs. Dent pow remdes in Watkins, and is sddition to other isbors proposes to enter the field as a publbc lecturer. Thoss who know ber will read with piessure, b t not surpri. the followmg motioe of ber deb performenee in the Schuyler County Demoorat on Friday evening of last week

This wes, as we are informed, Mrs. Dent's t9. pearanoe as public wpeaer an ber . generally and truly samitn. wa mart fying wuccess. Her subsect was Our Hemors. and she handied it perunent men. pr mder wi peiig positions whish she seumed., with aamirsie wiesr mess and sisty. pring mllies of origial wit a mo wi ro conly and gravwe of her sudtors. She mase son t the most Gistimguised humorit of e coumtry resd extrects from their writings He selotions we c priste to the subsect. ama were recid w a graoe and sioeutionery ofo. We whall wot plsce, sttompt even brist wymops o te poite positions maintind ane ainou r. DontT be folly approcitod whe mut be hor w — less, and ber logie. by imonetion and somparion. cle. . cop y Gon o its foree oma plaaning et

We underwtan tt e ln p gr m of surge or women. heve tahe inding prt i t of the wtte. o, Juding o and ai pi the managing at hee mae or w. oni, wot posi, p The Watkins Fuprens pid the lotnre equally fisttoring compliment, thus

We are mo o on o os As Mrs Dont i edy g e importent offcisl posiuon, few words mere

--- page 10 ---
250

regard to her will not be insppropriste m this onnection. It is her purpose to enter the lec turing field, like Mrs. Stanton, in the two departments of literature and reform. in both of which she is eminently fitted to stand in the front rank. She is a graduate of Ontario Seminary at Canandaigus and has had such experience as teacher in the higher branchesof literary culture, including langusges, muse and art, 2 fully prepered her large circle of acqusintances and friends to expect just the envisble suooess she achieved in Watkins at ber first appesrance on the literary platform. The friends of the Suffrage cause are certainly to be congratuisted on so valusble an sccession to thewr ranks : and the lyceum too will no doubt receive at the mext season a mew pillar and most graceful ormament in Mrs. Louise Holden Dent. P. p.

SAN FRANCISCO AND 118 SUFFRAGA MERTINGS.

CALFoRNLA is setting the nation the good example of esrnest, constant, untiring work with such mesns as it bas at hand. And resily it 1 helping itsolf better than it oould possibly be belped by any foreign md. San Francisco has a grand weekly Suffrage meeting, the discussions of which are worthy any state convention, for earnestners, eloquence snd ability. And the reports of them miske much of the matter that constitutes the Pioneer ome ot the very best Woman Suffrage papers in the world. The following are a part of the remarks of Lirs. Hartvie at the last wee ly meeting in Dushaway Hall of which account has been received:

How strange that one balf of maukind objects to give quslity of rights to the other half. to whom they are indebted for birth, bome and happiness There is opposition to our cause in all quarters of the giobe. Some are (vo selfisb to aid us, otners too ignorant to comprehend; and thus we meet with ridicule, stubborne and indifferevce. Mrs. Stenton, grest woman of Amer. ica, I pray for thee and thy suocess Good, genils. noble, brave, thou sandest 1ike a rook, defying tom pests of mature and human effortstSisers of Oslior mia, let us be lke this eroine—mmovable on one ub ject, but quick as lightning in thoughts, and sharp as stoel in speech, Men willmot fall in love with us t thi important period—tor ther taste is so degraded but we can make up for this by employing ourselves use fully. Housebold duties are sadly meglected, and 1 propose that every femsle adult, betore she ties the mar Tiage bond. spal e tr bow to pr , pro perly and to the best advantage, kitchon and nursery A grest desl of time and money is wasted on the for meor, and nothing secomplished but dyspepsis and con wumption, thuse two evils that aerange stomach snd brain. Men bave suffered when imtants. Look! there is wot one who is fimely shaped ither they are oroone in body and soul, or debased in spirit An! we did not teach them respect mor love for our sex ; they were pe slectod when chilaren, or too much imdolged Mind and body are diseasnd; they are jesioua. smal, and re fuse their partmers in lie, Hberts,1 When 1 go to privete rmiien. aing te to ign or petion for Woman Sufrage. the Fronchmen smilingly retuses. f 00 potite to o the e out , fabionsble for warmest oecupations the Spanisrs jooks sstonishedbe doe mot undertand imepen a the 1talan judges bis wife and all othors to be too wio nt o . p , his wings ie a roostor, looks down on us wilth ai. osin, baraly ompre how women van dere to rechher hand out for Presidenthin—Quesn on throne she may be. but not the heed of Repu ethe Ameriian born yielas. for geli our plesdings siowly. and with reproschinl loohs. signing our paper retuctantis, a he wonld lone money and ropuistion he promises us his asietane tht eonsists in ropesting over snd over in publie. whether pres women o0 of. AD we w t plese for him i Sisters, 1st ue help curssives: Ne

more begeing for Sufrage Tane $t1 Oo to Wasbingon, .0 Gow i e omte Gin penoenoe me t t ar ord a na, brsve it. and roosive the deth wound for good cause ———————————— MR. TILTON S NOVEMENT

W have conscientioustly enre rer 1.mpooi o o To w coming solemnity. But in spite of ourei. our sem of the ri0oio ovro , of his volunteer mission tmpress themsives upon m more powerfully than any otbers. Men of such oulibre, aoquirements and xpr By Ward Beecher, Goorge W. Curtis. 7 W Bigginson, Wm. L. Garrison, Geo W Juisan, Moses Cott Tyier, and others, are sum moned betors him, with women who, for pearly as many years as Mr. Tilton bas Wved. have toned ie Titans. amid sbuse and oslumny. to a0vance the camse of the own sex. Then, in the vol of grest pacinestor, be prooseds to tmorm them that be camnot allow any more quarreiing. snd interrogutes them as to the reasone why they cannot, then and there, be jomed in boly matr mony with another organizstion, whose repreptives stand also in the royai presence. sssured thet nows the day and now's the bour.”

Then. finding that be csunot make one orgeminstion from two, o ta Heller, who. by soms trick of legerde- , y one, he proceeds to remedy the ev of te matio cieties by tak ing trom bis pocket the constitution and hist of ofr r— $4 on priip —a wit is perons in atte organizes apother Nations! Woman Soffrage Socsety Like Young America, who "won't play if be can't be cap'en," be is put at the bead, borrows the name" of Anns Dickinson for its figure besd." and boisting bis fiag, bests Joud rub-2-ou-ub, summoning all peopies to surrender to the mew kins, to fall imto me, d mrch with him to the Heavenly Canasn" just abeed. It ie altogether too ftunny—enp cially in the light of the aisclsim ors which we give below The best 1833 schemes of mice snd men Gang ot agie.— and our go-abesd. gemial and altogethor agreesble brother Tilton is mo exception to the rule.

But while, snugly ensoonced in our editorial senctum, we bear the challenge, Under whicn bing, Bensonian speak or die!"we can't feel scared, and only leugh 1ittle in our sieeve. irrevorent though it may be. There is s time to lugh, and s tme to weep," says the Good Book—nd we sre sure by the tekle thers 1 in s, thet pow is the Gme to gh. Forgive s, brother Tton we are gid you are bended in right direction, even while we are amused at your tac es. We shall all come together, as the Miorite hym bas it— When we march imto the ots. RBye and bye.

The above is the response of the Boston Woman's Journal to the astempt of such persons as Lucretis Mott, Gornt Smith, Sarsh Pugh, Senator Pomeroy. Phebe, Cary and oters, to the number of more than s thousand. many. if mot most of them well-known and long known as faithtul, devoted workers in the osuse of Woman Suffrage, to the proposition to unite the friends of the onuse under one mationsl banper. tor the more wigorous and uoel proetion of thew work. 1f the Journal oan sfford such trifiing and ribaldry towards an honest, carnest. well-imtontioned undertaking, for moble, derle praineworthy ot, ely cannot harm those towsrds whom it is directed but it may be well to understand its animus, and what the cause will gein or lose by the ponconcurrenoe in that undertaking of those capeble of wch westment such porsons s proposed it . T

Srroep.Rev. T. K. Borcber sva. 1 hostility to Woman Suffrage. "TYou osn't sottie muady cofe by inoring tyT which the Boston estigetor repondsTres. ome p o y to be strred up as another

18E WORKING WONAN Bos Oro— very good 4 kind women h tales of thounds of starmg women. toM by sensetion lecturers, and senstion pewspapers, 'andto the coie w y would besr stories of real dtrons. of which 1 mye coit “My desr." they would ssy. when my sioquence was exhsusted. 1 am paging twoivs. fourteon, or fifteen dotiar per month. case might be, “to one, two, thrwe, or more girla, and i 1 want snything Sone 1 baws got to do ot mysedf. If 1 am ever rednoed t the condition you speak of. 1 shall bire out to ome unhappy family. snd prove s blessing to them"

I am not st 1l surprined mow the wteof feeling at which those women whe have hed lorne exporience bad srrved. I. mysel, beve y heve s5en business opportun ities at whioh men woud rejoine, witing, waiting. snd still weing tor the women with capscity enough to take bod of them. And yet t is mot onpacity thet Amerion women Inck, i is want of hobi and aining.

Within three weks 1 have seen three e business epportanites for women go begms One, as partner m s fancy wtore, requiring fve bundred collars capitsl. businens established, and suooo, woth the mght porson, gusranted Second, as agent and part proprietor n s pew advertising agency. stsrted by women, snd which has the control of s leree inteorest, ou cient to emsure smooes im the hands of induetrious and enterprismg persons. Thud, the superimiendeonoe and management of a ore making busimess siresdy estabibed, and which requires simply competont sbility

Now. I hope that I bawe pot arewn upor Tas REvoLo or mywel an wslmoe of le from sspiring young 1sios who wish in some hght and airy way to sobieve tme and fortune or from weak and mdiigent wiaows. with a chudren. who mortgage thomsives. knowingly. to a rolentiens dosting, snd find themselven. when the tme comes, wholly wneble to pay cvon the or The leson thet the women of to-ay bave to learn is one of sefliamee Theaovery they bave to make of the kimgion within themselves, the claim they have to ontabli that of their bwn proprestorsips over t

Think of . wobpert born Thok of the giory of coming inte posseon ot your ow of shaping your own destiny by your own will. of findmg mint in the wnspoken thougbt wnd wmother wit which bae heretotore only td itneto eop ome man hend ho Think of hoing quoen mstnd of t. vin the, an yo w ente upon the work of aong

Weay Womsn n. WeDuns the houdays. s fow months back 1 bad oo won. i purt of Nosh' Arks venile rog 1n ome. o prietor, oun She had bee hnan. o bt whe iooked draed o mig e r rng 1 ontre me o

--- page 11 ---
prossed my surprise st finding a womsn of ber apperent educstion and refinement in such a position. She told me that her busbend was studying for a physician, that to support the family and enable him to do it, she had undertaken this toy-shop, and, she added, with great pride, “I bave suoceoded beyond my expeotstions. I do not intend he shall be asbamed of us oither," said she. "When spring comes on, 1 shall replace my toys with fancy goods and little garments of my own making, and I expeot to make enough to set bim up ss a physician m a respectable quarter, and then when he is established we can join him, and mo one will know anything about it."

I said, “Do you think he will realize the sscrifices you are making for him?" She looked at me in simple wonder! She had not thought of sacrifices. As I left, with my arms laden, I thought, Oh woman, how great is thy faith, thy mns will always be forgiven thee A SucomsrUL WomAN.—There is, among the eite of our city, a lady who has worked out tor hersolf the beginming of a fine artistic reputstion. It is the more noticeable, beosuse she has done this alone and unsided. Two years ago, she conceived the beautitul ides which she has so successfully carried out, and, meeting with but little encouragement from any source. sho concealed her work even from her husband, until it wes completed.

1t is Book of Flowers," with a poeticsl cxpression of their emblems—s union of color and poetry. There were thirty-six flowers, all most exquisitely painted, the colors handled with the most perfeot freedom. I have not seen anything in water-colors that surpassed it. The leaves of each flower stand out from the background as if o real lesf had been lsid thereon. Every vein and veinlet is copied with the most perfect exactness. The straw-colored ground in the flower of the Abutiflos, for example, with its red veins delicately traced ovor the surface, is most perfectly represented.

Then, the transition from flowers to poetry is most natursl, and in this book seems like an inspiration. Her next difficulty—or the real one was to find a publisher. She submitted the work to the eriticism and judgment of a prominent artist who is well known for his liberal education and grest generosity towards sall fellow-artusts. He was delighted with her work and pronounced it a gem, "but thought it would cost more to publish it than would be realized in the sale of it." A friend then suggested publicstion by subscription, and the price of a singe copy was placed at thirty dollas. The success of these two in obtaining wubsoribers was so great, that she found berself more than repaid for ber lsbor, with surplus enough to cover the expense of publishing. Her husband (a lithographer) then offered ber $15,000 for her book It is now in the hands of the publishers. and will be issued in Mey next

The book, wo far as it goes, takes the same place in the floral kingdom that Anudubon's Book of Binds" has in the dominion of the feathered tribe, with the addition thet it ssvors wore of postry and romence HaAnmy 8. Broows, Chicago. How A Wonan Dors I1.—In the little town of Nauok Mass., wes inaugursted a Dobating ocety or Club, t which the male Solons were wont to air their sloquence, during the winter evenings. Among the pumber was one who, though the busband of a very quict, refined

hs Rarsintins.

nent of Woman's Rights," sn4 firm behever in woman's mental inferiority. One evening he came bome and relstod to bis wife, in bis batting the arguments of an opponent, but snddenly stopped to tell ber, that the socety had received a communicstion, or essay, from some unknown person, that far echpsed in literary sbility the production of the most gifted of the Club. He was exceedingly snxious to loarn who the mysterions person could be he brought home the manuscript, and never tired in resding it to his wife, eulogzed every somtence, and declared that the man who wrote it nsd s better knowiledge of buman nsture, a finer command of language, geve expression to nmobler sentments, than it had been his fortune ever to bave heard before. He remained in s state of profound mystification for some time, when his wife confided to him an important secret—that she had written the essay berself, and gave him the proofs. The revelstion bad the effect of making bim not only s wiser. but a bumbler man. BENNETT

New York, April 1870

New York, April 1870

RUwE., Cherokee County, Texas

RUwE., Cherokee County, Texas

SERINo that you desire all friends to the csuse of woman's elevation to send you statements of every suc cossful doms of woman, 1 would call your sttention to s lady of our village who. 1 think, 1 eminently wortny to be rewarded by potice even in paper with the infinence and circuls tion of Tz REvoLOTION. Hermame is Mrs. Dr. Lucy Wiggins. Without the bepet of an sarly educstion, she has, in the face of every difculty. burst the bonds of her thridom, and carried with ber success in the practice of medicine. Sbe bas been de rided in every manner by the people of this country— in fact, there is woaroely an epitbet that has mot been applied to ber, in order to discourage her efforts Yet she has been undsunted; snd the O13 Root Doctor," as sbe has been oslied, among other things. is pow set tiec fact in the County of Cberokne. Her charges sre always reasonable. Her praces are soarcely more the ball of those of others of her profession. She is yet mak ing a good ving, besides bringing joy to many a bed of pain. She is now fty yesrs old. but bas lost pone of the energy of youth. Sbe speaks of goimg to Philsdel phis mext winter to wisst a sister who resides there. where she will probably remsin, which would be s matter of grest regret to many whoknow and oan sppre ciate ber bers. 1 could give you many instances of her remarkable oures, as well as undreds of certinoes of the relieved sufferers, many of whom owe their hesith and perbaps 1ves. to ber, but 1 bave trepened on your space enough Yours respectfully. Mes M. N

CLavA I Th following facts are apropos to your isndsble on deavors to guin equal pay for equsi lsbor, Mi E. W. one of my sister teachers in this Institute, and her brothes. pursued the ame coure of — corric o o o— the degree of A.R. Both commenced tsching the same time, he for salsry of $1,500, she, for $490 year. Her department was that of Letin and Greel and required sta hours labor dsly in the reottion room. When she left this position with the bope of seouring one whore the r m prop ate to the labor required, one of ber pupils, a youns man who had given only half the time she bad., to the Claion. who l by tenching. woroa her and red 800 for o the fact that it is cwstomsry to pay s men double of Gmsdruple what is given to women or the e worh just as woll performed

This ro he same amout t t i be oet te dof fo pr, pti ti, mot he. co t y whils the brother has been able to visit forsisn landn. to fent his eyes on the gai of r and Romse, to wpend a-ions hoe in the r o e wr e w w, p he tt, 4 e o a w w, w

251

. T i t. ot t i vists of mity og wery y. Man H. o —T opened Forei Boo r Wi Bosto. o A p p h y y wendt 1s Omicago. Mise AG Bm. W. on r A A.Jonneon beve openes arng iore wmo t suspioes, and with the conndenee they heve irer . sptred. i thetr oare, aitenion, juagmet, a are cerin of succe

M La 3. BaARLow an Mis De Cp t type in th ofe of the Briageport (CL Sinto Thore are wis or wvn men in the weme ofo M Bariow equsis. and Miss Chapmen xonis any of e male compoior. i o lars per wosk, reiving pay t e Miss Chapman's weskls wages wxoont oe of any who set type in the offo A KENTUORY WomAN.—Mrs. ATbers. of Eontueny has, by ber own ori, t o0s $o the poor ti popi ving mon the mountins of that te THE WEAREs ERX.—Mr. BarmUm, Apeking of ero ing the Piains, mentions the faot of srons. moi me o i . a at w the toams to the end of e journer FE IDUT —A brignt exampie of fomin i0utry h i r 1 te t yg iy of the Baaor . m, w w 20,9 but who works on, day by day, esrming ber siz doners wekly

LADins oF SOmOooL ComMyTERS.—Laties bave be slocted on the so0l commit i Piympton, Mars old, an Sout Gi the acoo bosrd. A UszL ATTENT —A womsn in Perin ee devoted her life and means to chom or the ot r o t . tolligt ooug t e o A Wousw's WoR.—The widow of Dr. Bria. loar Cnimee o, where sbe is devoting ber efors to the ouei Chinese girs. for whom she ts buliding lerge orph age or school AACCo PT socomplisbed gi in Oroviie, Csl., privtet. wnd she works every day at the case-

NEW YORK CITY WOMAN'S SUFFRAGH ANSOCLATION

Tas primcipsl copversation on Fridey after moon was upon the laws of the state on e ownership of ehildren by the parents. Veory many interesting facts wore givon. iustrting the injustice. and eveon crpelty of the isws in most of the states. where by logal enactment the father i he propritor o the chre or sfter legal marriage, and the mother i pot o wdered even partne in the conoern1n this free country there are but two stton ht have reached a suffiient degreeof ovili to assert by law the right of s mothe t he and misory otmes. and the lnw tht openly contr ot Gd worthy the same of leww

tis proposed by the oty pt gether many stiking ots on thi (mow in po o to the wome o the rt A pariors for an n ometof he ry

--- page 12 ---
252

Mrs. Loguott and Mrs. Tuoker were appointed a committee to prepare for the entertaiment, the time and order of exercies to be announced at the next Priday meeting, whi ch will be held as usual at 149 East 15th st. a NOMES OF THE STRONG-MINDED. Missoum, February, 1870. DaAR REvVoLUTION Presenting a petition for Female Suffrage to the good dames of this little town in the west (the town comparstively mew. yet brim full of idess of s bundred years ago), many of them echoed their busband's song. that women had better attend to the household duties, and ocare for the children, and let the men attend to politics."

Having been favored with the soquaintanoce, and partaken of the hospitality of many of the “strong-minded" women, 1 could not help comparing theu households with those of my innocent, well-meaning, though weakly dames. It oocurred to my mind, that the more know ledge, experience, and common senss a woman has, the better is she sble to bring up ohil dren. and cook the beefsteaks. The more one knows of important and deeper subjects, the more one knows of little subjects. Anda woman who bas s0 hittle interest in the affairs of her country, that she cares not to keep herself posted sbout them, had better get herself to s nunnery, as specimen of the “stale and unprofitsble," whose companionship for any length of time must be more interesting to herself than it can possibly be to suy one else. I noticed where my dames had intelligent busbands, they generally spent their evenings away from bome ; if it was because they tired of the old subject of putting up peaches, or fallure in the bread, or the gossip about their neighbors' affairs, 1 know not.

As I have said, I have been favored with sn insight into the households of some of our leaders in the cause of Female Suffrage, and let me dwell a moment there, for 1 appreciste a charming home, and a well-cooked dinner. First, them, to the den of the Queen of Bears, to the but of one of the pioneers im the canse, who, of course, rakes brimstone over domestic harmony who probably recommends the growing of beards for women, and who must be orrtainly s coarse specimen, in appesrsnce, of s masculine woman—to the old home of Mrs. Stanton at Seneca Falls.

It is a large cottage house, embedded in the centre of broad grounds, be autifuily decorated here with some forest trees, and there with cultivated patohes of flowers, arbors of grapes, and farther back a space full of ruddy tomstoes, fresh corn, fat squashes, and all the other accomplishments of a well-regulated vegetable garden. The bouse, inside, 1 must contess. is little iferent from the generslity of houses, sorry as 1 am to sdmit it. In the first place, one room seims to look just. as well as suother, and a stranger would be much vexed in any of them, if the host or bostess would come in before he could get the arrengements in it all settled in bis mind. For, m every duection, on the walls. sre groups of heads one of pocts, another of philosophers. another of distnguished women, ste., ete also there is a profusion of busts, large and small, some of which look like stone, and others are parian. The furniture is o13-th ioned, as if they might have had, st least, some of the pieces some time, yot they are fresh 1ooking, or the roo could not heve such serupulous sir of nestness.

The ersintin However, if there wers any difierence in the choice of rooms, I preferred the library and nussery—the iormer posscasmg s large and wellselected collection of books, the suthor of two or three of which, besrs the name of my ledy's busbend. This, of course, is s favorite room of both busband and wife, who are bere as congenial compsnions as elsewhere. Yet po loss often do we find Mrs. Stanton in the nursery, the hesdquarters of seven children—five robust. manly-looking boys, and two rosy, interesting girls, all of whom have the same sdvantages for an inteliectual, phymosl, and mors! bringing wp.

Bat to the principal pomt I am simost sfraid my country dames will never believe me when 1 say that the cmsine is conducted on scient fic principies, and Mrs. S. is a scientific cook. Better bread, and more ravory goodies. one couid find nowbere, strange as it may sppear. Her canned peaches did not spoil, and her beefsteaks were nmever tough nor dry, to whomsoever belonged the credit.

And here I have been describing the home. without an sallusion to its sunlight, its fascinating influence, its life, in the cordial, soullively and piquant Mrs. Stavton berself, s bandsome. matronly-locking lady. brim full and running over with good humor—and withal a well-bred ar of refimement, which may be the result of good training, for ber mother was an educsted lady before ber, and ber father was an sble Judge of the Supreme Court of the State of New York. But I ssk pardon, dear REvoLUTION, for dwelling so long in the old bome of only one of our Woman Suffrage leaders. For I have visited Mrs. Davis, and several others, and 1 would like to have told about them all st omoce, but mow I fear you sre tired, and I will postpone the rest until another time.

REGON—WOMHUN MEDICAL STUDENT1S.

SALEN, ORRooN, 10th March, 1870. DEAn Miss ANTHONY Doubtless you have wondered what I've been doing all this long time that I baven't written to tell you of the strong-minded on this western slope. Tve been putting some of my pet theories into practice to the mo small amazement of the weakminded of both sexes.

Only think of it, Miss Anthony. the sudscity of s "female"sttending the med lectures, “oloseted," as Greeley says, Sor four long months with male students. listening to learned male lecturers on the varied phenomens of lite, death and disesse, going dsily to the dissecting table! How much more sensible and proper it would bave been to be sbhut up sll winter in the kitchen as women ususlly are, and then i 1 got wick. bow much more modest witbal to send for a male doctor to cure me

Men bave at length got the ides thet mater mity is the highes duty of women. Now, 1ash them to be consistent and ailow us the privilege of ntting ourselves for this hoty mmon. Mon know that they mever can become wucces o1 meroh t, moch previons imstruction they ought to know well thet women cannot fill this responsible otion without the highest culture. The time is coming when sohool after sohool will be founded for eduosting ow girls and women this ech pegit. thoug igly branoh of womn's ringYes nd the h rious time i he ms fitre will e whe colleges will opon wide their doors, mobly. j ly and gonerously without s dissenting voios,

334 the foulty of the medienl Separtment of the Willamette University. when 1 snd for somittanoe. At Mngth the frems of Womes Suftrage in this plaos begin to show signsf life. Pursusnt to s very unfriendiy motior in wr daily paper. by an oid sogy. the frinds o Equsl Rights met in the Opers Bouss o te preliminary steps towsrds the formsation of Woman's Suffrage Assocston for the state of Oregon. A committee of fifteen. Gistributed through out the State, are to act as n exeoutive bos Mra. Marion Todd is s promiment womss m the movement. She gave s lecture on the sutpet of Women Suffrage to a large sodence in the Opers House on the following evening Yours, Da. MAzy SavTmAs

1 am going right to getting more subseribers and will wrts again soon Many

NOTHING DENIED 10 LABOR

Ax spcsent philosopber seid, We are bere in a thestre, where every one has a port sliotted to am. The grest duty which hes upon man is, to act his part in periection. We may, mdeed, say thet our part Goes mrt su wa, amd that we could act another better But this i not our business. all that we are ooncermed in to exoel in the pert ve If it be an improper one, the fault mot in w, but Hon who has cast onr seversl parts, and s the prent disposer of the drama.

Epictetus, the author of these sentment. was himself a slave, and it a to be prewumed that be mesnt to advise contentment only with the inevitable. When the osnse of justace and right is to be promoted, we should stand rendy to aid in their sdvancement by the offermg of thougbt, work, seli-sscrifioe in any form. Hed all reformers been well sstissed with bollow creeds, and the unjust exprosson otpowers that be. thon religon erts would ever have been our noble heritace.

1f Louther, Washmgton. Jobn Brown. had re sisted the convicons of the sonis. de fursd to work as imstruments of a HBigher Power. they would beve dome obvions wroms. not only to God and themselve but t potr and evil is ever being renewed. not only in evey beart, but in the brosd arens of the world Itis the evertastmg batie. Ench gemrion varies from the last. beving profived to some tent by the wictores n of genertions pest. d the changed iwn. oredn. o Ma himsolf, and overihrows thetvenorsle ty rant, enstom

The mors law some is writson on the tbint of eternity Laks it auth tordny. to-ay re Who for Sunanto the p te. it 1 re f unlimued agittion. The shaf o e w t ar e . We ully boid. toned the world Bu whe bnows how mny beromes have adnhonored aghng the only y the ime T w wo many rothery mo d nided in i promoon These many. o

--- page 13 ---
ever, still luxuristing in the ides that it is quite as matural for women to maintain that "besntirul allegiance" to the governing power displayed in man. as it is for them to exorcise it, individually, as the head of the family, and colectively as law-maker and executive. They forget that all history bas substantinted the fact that man loves power in every form. and is ever ready to abuse it as monopobist, sivebolder, despot, unless restricted by wise and righteons laws. These are the men who thooght slaves exhibited a peculiar fitness for their situstion a such. If so, there seem to be noble elements in their character also which proved them equsl to the responsibilities of freedom. Before the day of emancipation came, many were the forebodings of “consequences dire," in the sudden sransition from bondage to liberty. Surely, if the ignorant slave has been equal to such a test. and can be trusted with the inalienable right of citizenship, it only remains for educated woman to prove, that m her hands the ballot may be used conscientiously and justly.

Possibly the same class of men scent danger in the effect of too much conscience in political affair. We often hear the motbers of Americs exhorted to bring up their sops to a realizmg sense of their duties and responsibilities as citizens, not only that, but fit them for those grand possibilities of Senstor, even President At the tomb of Washington's mother, President Jaokoon said, in clowing his address “Shall there be more men like Washimgton? Shall our land be peopled with such, or shall there be even enough to rule in the halls of legislation, so that we may become a land blessed with almost millennial bappiness? Will the mothers of the land answer?"Is not the teacher supposed to understand that which is taught ? Snch duties as these must prepare a woman's mind for the expression of her sentiments on vital questions, which may as intimately concern herself as her husband, son, or brother. The peculiar talent of men for mary of their avocations may be readily acquired; eonstant practice makes it what it is. And those excellencies, often looked upon as natursl endowments, will, if examined, be found to result from practice and close application, something which women generally know very httle of from experience, but which would inevitably make them not only happier, but more nseful members of socioty.

All are by mature free and equal. Tis their consent slone gives just dominion

Coox Covwty, Ia..—A Cook County organizstion for Wom an Suffrage was formed last week m Chicago with the followimg board of offoers President—Mrs. Fernando Jones VicePresidents— Mrs. Robert Collyer, Mrs. Richard Somers (Evanston, Rev. C. D Holmer Corresponding Neoretary—Mrs. C . Waits. Recording Reeretary—Mra. S. B. Pieree Treasurer—Mrs J. W. Loomis. Executive Committer Mrs. Rebeors Mott, Mrs. B. W Fuller, Mrs. Dr. C. D. Leysnway, Fernsndo Jones, Miss Thayer (Lake View, Res 3. M. Reid, Mrs Jne Jones, Mr. Wm. Cober, Dr C Blste The constitution was unanimously secepted and sdopted; also these resolutions esopd, .That nir bo o y land. the most imporiant question now before the Amerioen poopie is the tlisment of Univereal ur frage for women

2That as women are subject t the same oonstitn on an , rt me i o . w menta prinsiples of republicsn government, demand

t wome e vi nmet h 3. That we are in ivor of on amenoment to the o suton of the Doid Siten, proviing e ton sal ever be made on aot of e i e e cine o te iootive —— A GOOD MOVEKENT. ThAT is what the San Pranciseo Pionesr calls the present efforts to unite the two Natons Woman's Suffrage Associations. And it goes on to say. what multitudes of others are saxing in substance, such good words as these

We foel confident thet this movement will awnken n the minds of our resders. as 1t 30 1 that of our own. emotions of hope and yoy. Biessed. id the boty Nasarene, “are the peaoce makers Words stly spoken," excisimed the Pralmist. are like apples of gold in pictures of silverThe cause now presen the sorrowful spectscie of a divided boouse, two nations Woman Suffrage societies. These bave principles and measures in common. There is no pecessity for this unfortunate state of affairs. It should be discouraged. If persisted in it should recetve, as it justly merita, the earuest concemnation of those friendly to woman's political enfranchisement It is possible that this effort for recomciistion will not be orowned with success. It is possible that the lesders of the mew organinstion and the pillars of the oid one may defantly resist these friendly overtures and insist on the work of disintegrstion. If such shall be the case that party or society which shall either in form or in spirit spurs this appral. will be shorn of its mors strongth, 1t cpcity for dot o0d, and ite ability tor mischief will mecessarily grow amall by degrees and besutifully less."

Nox o0op ror WowaAN 70 32 ALONE.—The Mystic (Mass.) Press, a brave and brght little journal published vy “Hovey Brother's" in Chelses, in anpouncing and commending a Woman Suffrage meeting and probsble society there, counsels thus We beg to suggest to the ladios who have the arrenge ments in charge, that it be s woman's affair sltogetber Lot them bave s lady to preside, s isdy for the orps mental offce of secretary, and let their committe, if they have any, be composed mainly or wholly of thowe whose interests the oeots of the movement most directly affect. We belicve that the ladies are as capsble of con ducting s public mesting ae their brothers, and t bocause we wish to ee othr convined the ft t we want them to do $t. We are confident that whatever change in present lsws, won.on ohobse to demand, wil be made, but that wo long as they rely upon the oforts of men, their success will be temporary and nommsl The woman question, ike every other, shall siways hve a fair besring in these columns.

From the beginning it was seen by the Creetor that it was mot good for man to be alone, and so he hastoned to govern himse lf accordingly. And ever since it has been growing more and more apparent that woman slone, is slike bad economy. The Nationsl Woman, Suftrage Association last year elected only women to office and it soon went abroad almost universally, that only women were all wed to belong to the organisation and immense, mischiet was the result, as might have beon expocted. That the women are as oapable of conduoting s meeting, or 5. movement, as their brotherh. is troe onough. but both sexes. acting harmoniously together, would do it better than either alone

WonEn Dow's WaANT 7o VorETwo Medist Conferemors sat iast week in this oity. It was observable that ome question only of those that arose excited the mterot of woman. On the days po wh anee was large. It was that of sdmitting lsy mombers to the Genersl Conforence. Women, together wits the male lsity, voted pumerouly on this point last summer mthew wrions churches. As woters, theit interest in the wub-

253

joot was grest nd on this oooesion they fo ed in crowds to learn what the reuit of cleriosl voting would be. This sffords sn ower to o who t o wo take the trouble to vote if polstionl sufiage bestowed upon them. Eesponsibilsty meburally

Taz “Sons asp DsvontEn Peorn— Propbecy is tast fulfilting. Mrs. Ven Cou taking the Methodist mrmisterial work out of the bands of the male minmisters by ber wonderful suocess until the men don't know what to do with ber any more than men doctors d with women in the Eme of Henry the VIl. (was it not?) when they were suppianting men doctors by thew superior skill in the besbng art. And now the papers are introducing oother womsn Methodist mimister, s Mrs. Clerh. who has of iste been preasching in Connectent ike one anointed from on high. It i sid whe o resting afer ip campsaign of revival moetings st Thompsouville. Winasor Locks and West Suffield, Ot., and though s women of seventy-sux yesra, appesrs as fresh asa rose. She, until recently, called her publie mimistretGons talking." rather than preaching, but of iste she has oocupied the pulpst and dooursed from a text. Her busband ded years ago. One of their dsughters, s Mrs. Everest of Philedelphis, 1s s painter of mote there. and s member of an Epincopal cbotr and the iste A. N. Clark, the well-known editor of the Bartiors Courant, was her son.

MoRs Iron OF WonA SUFTRAE. —Oecasionally the World adducoes powertul srgements for Woman Suffrage. For instance. it was always claimed by the triends of this move ment that the iufluence of womsn on polition would be for good and that it would be impossible for utterly corrupt men to bold offoe when women could vote—and in the Worid, Aprs 11, under the boad of Anfd Virtue, 1 find a semi-humorous sistoment of how the women of Wyoming have had the Secretary of State removed by means of s petition socumng him of drunkenness and licon onsnens. ad re preparing an sttack upon the mersbal for - lar reason, followed by this comment

in p oming, it res into quesion whether. i mle frge become genersl, we will mot heve pew amene montto o o, t Puncy Congrenof many women. with power to nfore by approprite legislation the proviions ot Fancy it, indeed? The picture seoms to be an attractive one. If it ever should oome te pass thet moralsty should be requisite for the franohise and above all for offioe-bol dimg. we est ideal of s truly model Repubbe L. D. BrAas.

Coupwarea, Mion. Our esteemed pondent of that piacs, Mrs. Gotobell, write thet Mrs. Haslit of Hilindale gve an dar thore iast wek on Womsn Sufrge, the being.To wote, or wot two, bolding be large audnoe in the clonete hour and s halt" Mrs. Getobotl addsMr Hanitt a q woman. nd Michign y we e pron ber s its gt y Mrs. anlitt e e w . the most sttrective of the dsw.

--- page 14 ---
p

n sa wo

oto eo

o pp p p p p Lao pt po pod p p po p p Cao pa o pouaod uoedo od p p o o p on W O Ov

o pop o o po Swusas pu Suom wran ud uot o pu p o op aodo po p esi

p p p n p o p o o o o mo unp ,

pp p o p o po p oo on e o50 Po p p p p po pA o—p p e ommao m e ud pou p op a pus op p p L.o o A put p popdo o o peo ou A a am

—————— 1 woom o p sasa muo ammodds o 8 P o o ) oO p 0 uo oq —O

wm pod Comop o pu woa u wo J ood uom o N po o d do0 od 100 a ——— ssowods s poounonas p o asn oo o o 83 mdy Swpa p p o wgng wwmo omO om jo sood o 19p pm oO p o Jo p ouA —OAN OO ————— asmon sopm

0 p Sunared o 1 o o 10 o0os wpung 20 mry m o o pI Buuds , wa m om mo oo 00 o d po jo aopa piacjpoi jo sosison 4d R

md — P p Smeo o oa—EAO a a

o 1 0u 10 op om aou 10u op o oaL p us oua ouL Swign. amo m o ppa 0 —090 0 $0 0 o — 0 2OVO

118194 2

oo o p p pp p A 00 p o soud uoo)

10) posopp pous u 305 So a pu o ) poa

o poouo oods pou jo omv owmou A pu oo H ome o N o o p po miswer won oo oH Y uop Suouuy u uwng woo PO ouoo po ud Buwups sudosor wou o ospur uouws a 1uo woH O u200) q90. pu o Py W sl uio) otuuer pus pooa oH H0 o uwis ApvO moqe o0 105 poo

peoas sowods o) Buom o Suo0 L ouop o 0 0 o o CrwsoAY A omoo o Spu pus op o o 0, o junooo wo suo 3 o wmoa o u paoad o opo o ) umpuomy qu 0 0 om wodn spoge o o u00 01 ou 1949 ,O Jo wpu opuomcoo omo Ao u mrysto

mo szm50093 o3 mom smbos munoo om o p 3 osuoos ma soned onod u mo 3 p 5on . p p

. 1 p omoo d poriad 0 p Po IO mo ooypn wmo mots uL pmaL pu p oqd umuno pus o J O p ao oK moN mASN wH400) ut Bupsem rnuus remros plou uwonwioowy H

O8V OVHAANN S.NVROM TYNOILWN m 40 aVSHIAINNY

y97

--- page 15 ---
LITERARY.

SocTT AND SoLTUDE. Twelve Chaptors. Ra wWaldo Emerson. Boston

This book is simply other volume of Emerson's Eesays ; and Society and Solude no more designate or desoribe it than would Works and Days; or Labor and Ospital ; or Words and Deeds. There are in the book twelve gemuine Emersonisn Eesays (and what could any Emersonian ask more ?) namely Society and So1 tude; Civilization; Art: Eloquence Domestic Life warming Works snd Days: Books; Ciubs; Courage. Sucoess ; O1d Age. No subject is exhausted, but (begging Mr. Froude's pardon, Mr. Emerson's severeet, pos sibly, fustest critic. mors is said, and better sais on eacn, than has evor boeo ssid betove in the same space and time. A Lyceum Lecture of a single houz, and Mr. Emerson rarely excoods that time, does not aamt of eboration like Bisckstone's Commentaries on Law, or Taylor's or Tillotson's on Divinity ; but whoever is the tue literary chemist can and will disti in that time the esence of all that cen or meod be done for the thinmg portion of man and woman kind. And for thet class slone Mr. Emerson really works. And sll such only need be to1d that Mr. Emerson has given to the world another book, and they will at once govern themselves accovdingly.

APPLETON'S JOUnNAL for April 18 has a sketoh (with portrait of Protessor Charles Robert Darwin, the em nent nsturalist, whose romar kable works on tne Origin of fpecien" have passed through several English and nine foreta editions, imcluding Dutch, French. German, Russian, and Itafian. There is also a beautiful, aouble-page, tinted picturs of a southern garden, with aescription, and much more that is bosutirul, usernl and eutertaining. EvERY SATURDAY. The April 16 number has s full length portrait of Sir Roderick Murchison, the distinguished geologist, with 4 brief sketoh of his bife, ane four or five other besutiful and valusble pictures bewides. Every Sarwrday has risen by rapid degrees to rauk among the best works of its kind tn the world. Boston : Fields, Osgood & Co. $4 s year; 10 conts single pumber.

HARPER's BAZAR 1at wook war even more elsborste than usl in uston. Spring styles bsing ome thing to do with it probably. The resding matter, too, was unususlly good. Spittoon" is disagrecsble, but its necessity justifies every word, would be ample apology for a thousand such articies, would they do suy 800d to such a manbood as ours has become. HART Ap HOME, ast work, was foll of architeeture, agriculture, horticulture and endiess misconany, origimal and selected. New York: 37 Park Row. $4 year.

financial Department. Under this head, correspondents are responsible fo their own sentiments, and not Tus RRvoLTION.

SPECIE AS A CIVILIZER.

SPECIE AS A CIVILIZER.

As mankind began to emerge from barbarm, one of the first idens was a medium to represent an exchange of wants. Shells and trinkots were probably the frst currency known, then furs and other usefut articlos. Finally metsis bocame the most durable and conve miont, and when govermet eame org they wore coimed and represented fixed value. Kings and despots, anxious to bave their name and tame rendered more enduring than their deeds, caused their images to be engraved and stamped upon the cois, thus giving to them pationslity.

Coined motals bave gained the confidence of mankind, not by their imtrinsie walue (for gold reslly los useful than wron), but beosuse they are upposed to have a fixed and trreducible value. Thi, bowever, is a supposition only, for starying man would, if be had it, give a ton of gold. coined or unooined, for an ounoe of food, if he could get it for no less. Henoe the purchas-

e ooim umimies articie of peare soaros, and the real valne it posseses represents only the swest and agony of tol and care thet extracted the metals from the rocks. Again, the valne of the precious metals varies with the not.ons of people. Spanish dolinr will purchase m most of the oriental countnes twice as much as Amoemioen o: Europesn silver of equal value. The former powsers their confidence, benoce showing that confidence 1s the measurer of thew value Whatever, therefore, will create confidence is really of value, and answers the same purpose as ooin

As mankind beoome more civilized, they gan a bigher point of view upon these questions, and they soon find that while spocie apswers a barbarous people a good purpose, that it totally fails to smawer the higher wants of enlightened nations. Bankers and misers may perhape declam against this, but if so, we can eanily de monstrate its truth.

The money transactions of our country probably average s billion of dollars dsily. This in gold would weigh near 2.000 tons, in miver bout 32,000 tons. which multipled by 300, would make a weight of nearly 600,000 tons of gold or ton million tons of silver mecessary to do our whole business for a single year. If we were obliged to handie, examinse, count, weigh. and trausport this amount the length and broadth of our grest land. trade and commerce would speedily come almost to an end. We would execrate such a barbarous currency. Europe and Asia may manage it. perbaps the same as they do travellers, stop them every bundred miles to examine their passports and baggage Our couotry will not permit any such ologe upon its enterprise and prosperity. We therefore prefer a more civilized currency.

Singular as it may seem, it is mevertheless true, that the character of a people is controlled by its money more than by any other element. Specie seems to imfiltrate through and saturste its possessor with its imert, immovable and lifeless charaoter. Scaroely s man can be found who can resist the stupifying influence it eaorts. Let even an enterprising business man reccive gold or silver and his impulse is to bide it. Like the sorvant im the parsble, be buries his talont. Old stockings, pots, chimueys, strong boxes, or some secret place invarisbly become its recepticle. Thus it orushes and stfies entorprise. and, lke the lamp under s bushel, is of httle use to any one. Its effect is invamsbly to make misers and to shrink greatness into httieness.

The indivdual gives character to the mstion. The Emperor of Moroooo is 3dto have three bundred millions bosrded up which was robbed of the christians, enturien sine. Chins four bundred yosrs sinoe forbad the exportstion of coin and has studied every art to gravitate the world's silver to itsolf. She bes probably three-fourths of it now. Yeot bow much bet ter are Chims and More to-day tha thoug they had mot a cent?it has really proved to them s financial Upaa

Vory different bas it been with us. The twelve hunared millions we bave dus from o mine are all gone—ipent as soon as earned. nd although Europe snd Ams may chuckie in heving outwitted the Yankees of thesr hard arned cotn. who, we might ask, have beon reslly the gniners neither Europe mor Asis oan show any avaninge from o with t, whle we o ot of vast cition, plondd farms. fits of omer, et works of riro d where w wil dorness only twenty or tharty years sinee.

255

The grest fact is pinsn to a, tot wh p flows castwrd.enterprie fow r showing their sntipodsl nateres. This amonstrton ought to oovine e ht p 1 mot esetial to our e. properity o greatnes. and that its tendency is to degrade ratber than elevate mrankond. GEo. E. Smrra.

REENBACKS VA. BAXE AOTE

Tas Cincmnat: Gastt saws the Chinage Tribune bas made the remarsble monetary disoovery thet. sithough groenbacks are at doount, bank notes are at par. And it grve the reason why. it says the walue of the greenback note depends wholly upor confidenoe, snd this confidrnoe 1 mearured by the premmm on gol3. Therefore gold bemg 111. the greonbeck dolisr is worth but 90 cents. But on the other band the Nations! Bank note is tully w cured by a deppsit of bonds, snd by s oerin amount of assets on hand. By which it comes sbout, it ssys, that the bank note 1s t per while the greenback is at s discount of 10 per cent." And this is proved again by another process, for it says. "while peitber the bank nor the government can legally redeem one of its own promses by tendering snother promis of the same kind, the bank oan legatly redeem its promises by tendering thet which the govermment bas declared to be a logal tonder Hene, paradonional a the foct may soem. the National Bank motes are at par while to groenback is 10 per cent. discount.

And thus it comes to pass thet the bank pote aoler is st par. while the greoenback daol at., in which alone it is redeemable, is worth but 90 cents. This comes from beving s finsposl turn of mind. Mere bankers would pever have dss covered thet they gum ten per cent. by redoming their motes with greenbecks but the gonine which dives to the bottom principles of money. makes it pisin. The conclusion thet we should sbolish the greenbeck motes, winob are deprecisted, and wubsttute bank motes whoh e at per.

The quality of bemg at per was suppowed to be to well at par. As the bank mote e t p in greenbah. d the r p bank notes, it would mever have beon kpown that there was ton per o f market watne if the Choage Trne bed o dGiooverd . But w. fer al. the re of ten per cent. 1s whollty metphysiol. we doubt if it oan be made a bass for praco monetary system.

Fos Mors Paronm. FanoRL a Ta U “PERRY NOTH ANP FERCRLE OTION The only ot o Face. Propared only by Dr R.C PERKY. pon ot. New York. Bo by Drugsits evrr

LA o MA et Cy n OPI T Ma PARASOL A a RIO MA TANC 00 MA BOUSEREING soos. BooR oR Ma Apopi pr A Por a o M MARY DINON JONEN. M. D.. BYRAON TRR, ROORL

--- page 16 ---
256

n

46 BROAD STRERT, N. 7., ay an4 5e11 Gold, Govrment om a Raflway, Mining and O Stocks and Benos Bonds of any Stste, County or Oity, and wil make ibers! advancee on sams ; will make coflections on and issue certifiot of Goposit svafisble in all parts of the Union. win promptly sttend to sli Masl or Teiegraphic communicstons. s8 A L V E The important disoovery of the Carbohe Acid, ass cleansing, puritying. and besling agent, is one of the most remarkable results of modern medioal resesrch During the late civil war it was extenwively used in the hospitals, and was found to be not only a thorough asinfectant, but a'so the most wonderful and spoedy Hesling Remedy ever yet known.

t is now presented in s solentific combinstion with other soothing and hesling sgencies, in the form of a SALVE; and, having been already used in numberiesss cases with most satisfaqtory and beneficial results, we have no bositation in ofering t to e public as te most cortain, rapid, and effeciual remedy for all sores and ulcers, no matter of how long suanfing, burns, cuts wounds, and every abrasion of skin or fiesh. So1d by al orugeists. Price, 35 conts. JONN F. HENRY, Sole Proprietor,

JONN F. HENRY, Sole Proprietor,

94 1y

A LT MAN Bros. & Co., Sixth Avenue. Eiegnt A LT M A N Bros. & Oo., Sixth Avenve. Our Sash Ribbons are sll mow in Full Hne, Gross Grein 78 and 8 ots.Ribbons of sll other colors A L.T M A N Bros. & Co., Sixth Avenne. Piogues all new, at 29cts., weort 40c.Linen jor Suts 3 . worth 1 ots.Boe make Alpaoe A LT M A N Bros. & Co., Sixth Avenue. Linen Towels, large sise $2.00 dosen.Linen naphins, damsh, $1,00 donn. Well mown make abie men 78 co y A LT M A N Bros. Go. Sixth Avenue. s, 35 conts of 50 cente a yard. MAN Sixth Avenue. i from $1.00 Sil Parssols of all mow t Bros. & Co., Sixth mue. A L.T M A N Bros. & Go., Sixthenue. Gents goods . bargin Gents and Boys Dress Shirts to or der, Gents and Boys Scarfs and te A LT M AN Bros. & Co., Ste Avenne All No Beoond prive aked or on 31and 389 th Ave., ot th 21 tret

A LT MAN Bros. & Co., Sixth Avenue. Eiegnt A LT M A N Bros. & Oo., Sixth Avenve. Our Sash Ribbons are sll mow in Full Hne, Gross Grein 78 and 8 ots.Ribbons of sll other colors A L.T M A N Bros. & Co., Sixth Avenne. Piogues all new, at 29cts., weort 40c.Linen jor Suts 3 . worth 1 ots.Boe make Alpaoe A LT M A N Bros. & Co., Sixth Avenue. Linen Towels, large sise $2.00 dosen.Linen naphins, damsh, $1,00 donn. Well mown make abie men 78 co y A LT M A N Bros. Go. Sixth Avenue. s, 35 conts of 50 cente a yard. MAN Sixth Avenue. i from $1.00 Sil Parssols of all mow t Bros. & Co., Sixth mue. A L.T M A N Bros. & Go., Sixthenue. Gents goods . bargin Gents and Boys Dress Shirts to or der, Gents and Boys Scarfs and te A LT M AN Bros. & Co., Ste Avenne All No Beoond prive aked or on 31and 389 th Ave., ot th 21 tret

DEALER IN PIANOS. ORGANS, MELODEONS. MUCAL, MENCHANDISE, SHERT MUSIC AND BOOKS. AGENTS FOR ATEINWAY PIANOS 108 JEFFRASON ST. BLOONINGTON, ILL. .A. E. WALTON . 1. WALTON AGENTS READ THIS wW WILL PAY AGENTS A SALARY OF

he stt INSURANCE CONPANT

or NEW YORK.

NEW YORK. No. 390 BoADwA. PETwEEs FULTO A Jow CASH CAPITAL. $1325,000. $100,000 DEoTTE wT TH IA A oTRE STATE Fo TE PROTOTIO oTHE PoL HoLo All the Offoers and Drectors (without an excoption are Stockoiders, and will tae 7o00 oare that the proper reo 0 frr proto of th Poliy w e This Compeny makes s Cash Dividend to s Poliy Hoters o 5 0 50 per cent ch yer t means of its tow rates of premiums. The safety of the Policy Bolder is guarded. All New York Companies are obliged by the Sst t ot sde the e erv.The er f Oo peny is the seme, caicuinted on the tanle of mority, athe me rt of intoret om y all are saie CONDITIONS OF POLICY

This Company restriction on trevel after one sunusl payment been made. This Company insures the vee of feml This Company will not contest any legs claim pay clatms as o0om s the proot thereof is y establd any other Company organined the laws of New York, snd responsible to the Insurance Depsrtment for its satety The Farmers' and Mochemios winl grant insurenoe to suit on tbe following plans OonpiAny L7E, Eown CRT Eo Conrourn INTRR. Jo ENDowET. Incoms PRODUOTR. JorT L73, TEnn Lavn. RETUR PR. Arr. and in additson to the sbove plans will issoe polipies on the TONTINE MUTUAL." on CHEAP PLAN FOR WORKING wE.

o CHEAP PLAN 7o woRRINe wE. Tontine Mutos is combination of Insurance d Endowment, and is singulerily adaptod to the wante of i opoople who ev itert dear o the boncats of Lifs Insurance by its besvy expeonses. (See explansation below. To imeure your lite on the Tontine Moutusl Pian you pay $15 onoe. You pay $3 snmually. You pay $1.10 whemevar s death ooours in your Cless You are certaim to recerve $1.,000. And if your Class is full $5,000 Classes are reguistod by ages. BOTH SEXES ADMITTED IN THE SAME CLASS. ALL HAVE TO PASS A MEDICAL EXAMINATION. Clason are 1imited to 5,000 Mom beors. WHENEVER A. CLASS 18 ONCE FULL 17 WiLL ALWAYS REMAIN FULL The Company gusrantees that in osse your desth should oer within year, slthoug ther are t thounand Members in your Cisss, yot will your mmily receve $1,000 but in case your Ciaee has more then oue thou o then you would receive a many daoliars s there are Meombere in your Ciase at the time of your desth.

FIVE THOUSAND MEMBERS. $5,900 Clase A. Admits ah beotweon the agee of 15 and . Clase .Admit all botwen the ag of 3 4. Cisse C. Admits sil betweon the ages of 68 and 60. TONTINE FUND Atte me me yo bocome mur, yo become A MEMBER Of A TONTINE FUND “Which may givo your, whilst ving, lge of money This is the owy yin the United te 135,000, anbae deponit wih the t fo — urity o e Poliey oiar. tht i poli hind SEND FOR BOOK OF RATES. ALL. DIRRCTORS ARE STOCKROLDERS ALL OFFIO ARE HTOOKOLDR. E. MCMURDY., Prt E. MARTINDALR. Viee Presdent

we A, Loos M. Consulting Actary Onanpe L. Srewan, Cownss

Oomape L. rwan, Cown MEDTOAL RAAMIE Ww R. M o

HONOPATH; WUTCAL LIE SRAR 00. o. . This Oompy ov 2.390 Poce Inenring ov.500,00 D And hae 22, 792 The Romopetic Mutes Lite Inwurnoe Compen mr Homo o Lower wutes than any oter Kew. Vor Comprny T o Company in the wona Tts donen re a p y p opt o pr Tts poltcios are a mon fo p ment

No extrs charge is mede on sout of pi rvel Promiums and Diviaonoe a o WONES INSURED A7 SAME RATES AS WEN Aowr WAFTED Send tor ciroulars and books

D. D. 7. MARSHALL. Presiat JAMES CUSRING, Ja.. V. Pren. A.BALSEY PLUMMER, Secretry. STEWART L. WOODFORD, Counsl. E. K. EzLLoon, M. D. MeGical Examiner

oRA .D., for Nortbern and Cen New REym. CLEvEA, 31 Drosow. New Wor On Jons W. MAAL., Aurora, Hmo, fo wet , , C Boo . . New Engnd. 3om To., M. D. 19 Oourt rt oton o . B. Rooswhi. Miobry, Vi. .2 W U 8 E A. A. CONSTANTINE'S PERSIAN HEALING OR PINE-TAR SOAP Each cake is stampedA. A. Constantine's Porsinn Bealing or Pine-Tar Soap. Petomend March 1a, 197 ne other is genuine.

BEwAn oF Iao.For the Tom. BAT NUn the Sonp hs o s. pro e plexion fals, romoes al Danarw. epe the Ha o and sily and prevents it from falling of. snd 1the best atr Ronovetor in .. 17 ConmeChapped Hands Pimpios. Sa Khwm. Prostd Peet, ure, o Ostari of the nd. n 1 Go To o, this city nd rou ot e ctr sively by our best physcins. Wher m come ounold meeity We avine o a Deir Apents wan C

A m H E NOVEL TY KN1F E

POR LADIE AND GENTL ise ome orimery i, ungi m. pop, pi 150 P w C FITOR. cn A Chomm e

e A . A O —
