--- page 1 ---
Sufffagist

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 24, 1917

H —

--- page 2 ---
Gungresstomal Union for Woman Suffrage Nattonal Hinman's Harty

District of Columbia, Lafayette Square, Washington, C Illinois, 1004 Stevens Building, Chicago, Tel. Ranolp 1004 Indiana, The Arcade, West Washington Street, Indianapolis

ECT: To secure an amendment to the United States Constitution enfranchising women.

MEMBERSHIP Open to all women who, regarding woman suffrage as the foremost political issue of the day, will support it irrespective of the interests of any national political party.

ENTRANCE FEE: Twenty-five cents. There are n o dues.

Membership Miss Emily Stearns, D. C. National Headquarters, Committee of 200 Maintenance of Mrs. Willlam Kent, Cal.

Central States—Miss Elsie Hill, Conn. Western States—Miss Mabel Vernon, Southern States—Mrs. E. St. Clai —Nev. Thompson, Ariz.

rth Middle Western States—Mrs. A. R. Colvin, Minn. Inland Suffrage States—Mrs. E. M. Garnett, Utah.

Nevada Mrs. M. S. Bonnifield, Winnemucca New Jersey Mrs. J. A. H. Hopkins, 17 West Park Street, Newark New Megico Mrs. Joshua Raynolds, 308 South High Street, Albuquerque New York Mrs. O. H. P. Belmont, 13 East 41st Street, New York City North Dakota Mrs. Elizabeth Darrow O'Neil, 714 Eighth Street, Fargo Ohio Mrs. Mead, Vandalia Oregon Dr. Florence Manion, 517 Medical Building, Portland Pennsylvania Miss Marie Ernst 213 Hale Bldsg., Philadelphia South Carolina Mrs. John Gibbs, 9 pitt Street, Charleston

Indiand Miss Eleanor Barker i Trust Co. Indianapolis Kansas Mrs, Dan Casement, 343 North 15th Street, Manhattan Maine Mrs. Robert Treat Whitehouse, 42 Deering Street, Portland Maryland Mrs. Townsend Scott, 817 North Charles Street, Baltimore Massachusetts Mrs. Agnes H. Morey, 120 Tremont Street, Boston Michigan Mrs. Nelson Whittemore, 2967 West Grand Boulevard, Detroit Minnesota Mrs. A. R. Colvin, Davern Avenue, St. Paul Missourd Mrs. Edith Barriger, 5430 Cabanne Avenue, St. Louils Montana Mrs. C. S. Haire, 528 Hemlock Street, Helena

CHuwmonn, mrs,. Jonnd nRosers, N. 1. Mrs. Robert Adamson, N. Y. Mrs. Rheta Childe Dorr, N. Y. Mrs. Charles F. Amidon, N. Dak. Miss Crystal Eastman, N. Y. Miss Jssie Ae, Mr. Andre Fouiloun, Ore. Mrs. Mary Austin Cal. Miss Susan P. Frost, S. C Mrs. Adolphus Clay Bartlett, Ill. W Mrs. Emma Maddox Funck, Md. Rit Bod, N. . Mrs. Elizabeth Gerberding, Cal. Mrs. Edward Breitung, Mich. Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Gilman, N. Y. Mrs. Alfred H. Minn. Mrs. Adolphus E. Graupner, Cal. Reverend o rown, Wis. Mrs. Edwin C. Grice, Pa. Miss Mary A., Burnham, Pa. Mrs. Jennie Law Hardy, Mich. Mrs. Dora Buell, Col. Mrs. W. E. Hardy, Neb. Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, Utah Mrs. H. O. Havemeyer, N. Y. Mrs. John Carey, Ind. Mrs. F. R. Hazard, N. Y. Mrs. Joseph Carey, Wyo. Mrs. Phoebe A. Hearst, Cal. Miss Alice Carpenter, N. Y. Mrs. William Randolph Hearst, N. Y. Mrs. William L. Colt, N. Y. Mrs. George Hendrie, Mich. Mrs. Coonley, Ill. Mrs. Frederick C. Howe, N. Y. Mrs. Frank Cothren, Ill. Miss Mary Ingham, Pa. Mrs. Lucius M. Cuthbert, Col. Mrs. Inez Irwin, N. Y. Mrs. George H. Day, Conn. Mrs. Agnes M. Jenks, R. I. Dr. Maria M. Dean, Mont. Dr. Cora Smith King, Wash. Miss Lavinia Dock, Pa. Miss Fola La Follette, N. Y.

Delaware, 17 East 7th Street, Wilmington Tel. Wilmington 5580 District of Columbia, Lafayette Square, W Illinois, 1004 Stevens Building, Chicago, dolph 1094 Indiana, The Arcade, West Washington S dianapolis OBJECT: To secure an amendment to the MEMBERSHIP: Open to all women who, national political party. ENTRANCE FEE: Twenty-five cents. Th

Miss Alice Paul, N. J., Chairman Miss Lucy Burns, N. Vice-chairman Miss Anne Martin, Nev., Chairman Finance Members Mrs. Lawrence Lewis, Pa. Miss E Notona Anne Martin, Nev. Miss Maud Younger, Cal. Mrs. W

Bastorn States—Miss Margaret Whittemore, Mich.

Miss Beulah Amidon Miss Lucy Branham Miss Iris Calderhead Middle Atlantic States—Mrs. Henry Bruer

Arizona Mrs. H. M. Clagett, Nogales Arkansas Mrs. Edward M. Jarrett Hote e o1 Marion Co. rs. Ida Finney Mackrille, 1271 37th Avenue, San Francisco Oolorado Mrs. Bertha W. Fowler. 1225 W vee Colora do Sprimg Connectiout Mrs. W. D. Ascough. 456 Washington Street, Hartford Delaware Mrs. Florence Bayard Hilles 17 East 7th Street, Wilmington District Columbia Mrs. W. T. Burch, 21 Madison Place, Washington, D. C. Idaho Mrs. Frederick Walker, c /o Trayeling Library, Oxford Hotel, Boise Illinois Mrs. Bertram S 1004 Stevens A Chicago

BRANCH HEADQUARTERS Marypland, 817 N. Charles Street, Baltimore, Tel. Mt. Vernon 3279 ton, Massachusetts, 401 Phillips 120 Tremont Street, Boston, Tel. Fort Hill 282 an- Michigan, 118 Farmer Street, Detroit

iinnesota, 206 Studio Building, corner Market and Fourth Street, St. Paul Colors—Purple, White and Gold

National Executive Committee of the Congressional Union

Treausrer, Miss Joy L. Webster, Neb. Assistant Treasurer, Miss Gertrude L. Crocker, 111. Sceretary, Miss Mabel Vernon, Nev. Officers of the National Woman's Party Mrs. Phoebe Hearst, Cal., Vice-chairman Miss Alice Paul, N. J., Ex-officio National Departments Organization

Miss Doris Stevens, Neb. Pageant Miss Hazel MacKaye, Mass.

Executive Secretary, Miss Virginia Arnold, N. C Field Secretaries

National Organizers

Miss Alice Henkle Miss Hazel Hunkins

Miss Gertrude Fendall Miss Mildred Gilbert Miss Sarah Grant

District Chairmen

National Committee of State Chairmen

National Advisory Council

Miss Gail Laughlin, Calif. Mrs. Lola Maverick 1ll, Mrs. Jessie Hardy MacK aye, D. C. Mrs. Lionel S. Marks, Mass. Miss Julia Marlowe, N, Y. Miss Helen Marot, N. Y, Mrs. Harris Masterson, Tex. Miss Edythe Wynne Matthison, Conn Miss Marion May, N. Y. Mrs. Bernice McCoy, Idaho Mrs. Lilla Day Monroe, Kans. Mrs. John T. Morrison, Idaho Mrs. William Spencer Md. Mrs. Ellen Spencer Mrs. Meredith Nicholson, Ind. Mrs. Adelina Otero-Warren, N. M. Mrs. Marsden Perry, R. I. Mrs. Annie Porritt, Conn. Mrs. Alden Potter, Minn. Mrs. William Prendergast, N. Y. Mrs. Nina G. Proctor, N. Y. Mrs. James Rector, Ohio Mrs. Henry Ridgly, Del.

N. D. C., Tel. Moin 5437 New Jersey, 17 West Park Street, Newark, Tel. Moret New York, 13 East 41st Street, New York, Tel. Murray Hil 5444 50 East 42d Street, N. Y. City (Oity Committee) Ohio, 145 East State Street, Columbus Pennsylvania, 213 Hale Build Philade Tel. 85 ins, phis,

Mrs. Lawrence Lewis, Pa. Miss Anne Martin, Nev. Miss Mabel Vernon, Nev., Secretary Dr. Margaret Long, Col., Treas. Press Mrs. Robert Baker, D. C.

Mrs. Helena Hill Weed, Conn. rmon, Southern States—Mrs. H. St. Cla Thompson, Ariz. Miss Marion McGaw Miss Margery Gibson Ross md Suffrage States—Mrs. E. M. Garnett, Utal

South Dakota Mrs. A. R. Fellows, Sioux Falls Tennessee Mrs. Hugh L. White, Johnson City Tezas Mrs. Clara Snell Wolfe, 909 West 18th Stret, Austin Utah Mrs. Margaret Zane Cherdron, 1901 South 9th Street, Hast, Salt Lake City Vermont Mrs. J. Borden Estee, Montpelier rs. G. Meredith, 204 st Grace Street, Richmond Washington Mrs. Otis Floyd Lamson, 1237 Federal Ave., Seattle Wisconsin Miss Ada James, Richland Center r. Frances M. Lane, Cody

ounger, Cal. Miss Ella Riegel, Pa. Mrs. Julius Rosenwald, Ill. Mrs. Charles Edward Russell, D. C. Mrs. Frederick Sanborn, Cal. Mrs. May Wright Sewall, Ind. Mrs. Austin Sperry, Cal. Mrs. Albert Steinfeld, Ariz. Mrs. Julius Stone, Ohio Mrs. David D. Terry, Ark. Mrs. Mary C. Therkelsen, Ore. Mrs. Robert Gibbes Thomas, S. O. Miss Clara L. Thompson, Mo. Mrs. Shelley Tollhurst, Cal. Mrs. Samuel Untermyer, N. Y. Mrs. Richard Wainwright, D. C. Mrs. Hettie D. M. Wallis, Tex. Mrs. Thomas F. Walsh, D. C. Mrs. John Jay White, D. C. Mrs. Harvey W. Wiley, D. C. Mrs. S. B. M. Young, Mont.

--- page 3 ---
VOL. V, No. 56 The Published by Woman Suffrage and the National Woman's Party WEDNESDAY. JANUAR Lafayette Square, Washington, D. C.

Presidential Suffrage Probable for Women in North Dakota

FRAZIER, of North Dakota, is said to be about to sign the bill by the state legislature extending to the women of the state the vote for all offices and questions not embodied in the Constitution. The bill is drawn on the lines of the Illinois suffrage bill, which granted to women a vote for Presidential electors but not for members of Congress. This means that in 1920 North Dakota women will be qualified to vote for President of the United States.

Senator Poindexter Introduces Suffrage Question in Congress constitutional amendments bearing on woman suffrage were introduced in the Senate, January 19, by Mr. Poindexter, Senator from Washington State. The first proposes to change the fourteenth amendment to the Constitution to read as follows:

“Representatives shall be apportioned among the several states according to their respective numbers, counting the whole number of persons in each state, including Indians not taxed. But when the right to vote at any election for the choice of elector for President and Vice-President of the United States, Representatives in Congress, the executive and judicial officers of a state, or the members of the legislature thereof, is denied to any of the members of such state, being twenty-one years of age and citizens of the United States, or in any way abridged, except for participation in rebellion or other crime, the basis of representation therein shall be reduced in the proportion which the number of such citizens shall bear to the whole number of citizens twentyone years of age in such state."

The effect of this amendment would be to reduce the representation in every state that denies women the right to vote. The second resolution provides for the addition of the word “sex" to the fifteenth amend-

Notes of the Week ment forbidding restraints on suffrage because of race, color, or previous condition of servitude.

Senator Poindexter asked unanimous consent that the amendments be referred to the committee on woman suffrage. Senator James, of Kentucky, objected, and they were referred to the committee on the judiciary, in accordance with the rule for constitutional amendments.

Secretary Baker Supports Presidential Suffrage

ECRETARY of War Baker strongly urged S Presidential suffrage for the women of Ohio to members of the state legislature who called upon him in Cleveland last week. He told his callers that if he were a member of the Ohio legislature he would not only vote for such a measure but get out and work for it. “Presidential suffrage should be given Ohio women as a matter of justice and right," said Mr. Baker.

A Picket Line in Wisconsin T is announced that a picket line similar to I that on duty at the White House is to be started by Wisconsin suffragists at the Wisconsin state capitol to urge the passage of the state suffrage amendment. Women of Wisconsin have worked and lobbied for many years for suffrage in their state and it is said that some of the best-known and most brilliant women of the state will take part in the picket.

English Women Carpenters Sent to Battle Front FTER training as carpenters, English women A are being sent to the front to erect defenses, according to a recent London dispatch. Messrs. Tarrant, British goverument con-

tractors, state that they have received permission to send to France as many women carpenters as they can get, and that they expect to send two or three hundred immediately.

Women Lawyers Still Barred From English Courts

FFORT has been made in England for E years to open the law courts to the practice of women lawyers. On January i18 Holford Knight, supported by Lord Robert Cecil, made a formal application to the bar council for their admission, but the appeal was defeated by an overwhelming majority. When the Lord Chancellor rejected Miss Bertha Cave's application in 1903, he said: “There is no precedent for ladies being called to the English bar and the judges are unwilling to create one." Thirteen years of progress for women seem to have had little effect on the bar council.

State Service for Women

“Committee for the voluntary enlistment A of French women in the service of the country" has just been formed in France for the purpose of registering the names, addresses and special qualifications of women who are willing to serve the Government whenever it calls upon them. The women behind the movement are Mme. Emile Boutroux, Mmes. Emilie Borel, Hubert Bourgin, Charles Chenu, and a number of other wellknown French women.

This is a step in recognizing the wider citizenship of women, but it is interesting in this connection to note that a more radical one was recently predicted for Germany by Kuno Francke, in an address before the Germanistic Society in New York. He announced as important measures before the German people, likely to be passed immediately after the war, woman suffrage and a system of universal state service for women.

--- page 4 ---
. h r

Suffrage Sentinels Still Wait at the White House

ARYLAND was the first of the states to M be represented in the demonstration now being conducted by the Congressional Union in front of the White House to remind President Wilson that the women of the nation are holding him responsible for the nonpassage of the federal suffrage amendment. Maryland day on the picket line was significant in that it drew from this state, one of the most conservative in the Union, with strong southern sympathies, a protest that convinced the most casual spectators that southern women are demanding political liberty with the East and the West. Thousands saw the block-long line of women during the afternoon.

The demonstration of the women of Maryland was one of the most beautiful sights that has been seen in the Capitol for many days. The long line of women bearing the great banners of the Congressional Union extended along Pennsylvania Avenue the entire distance from the east gate to the west gate of the White House. From across Lafayette Square the floating purple, white and gold

Section of Maryland Women on Guard at White House

Section of Maryland Women on Guard at White House ge Sentinels Still Wait White House

tri-colored streamers of the Union could be plainly seen, a vivid decorative line against the classical white bulk of the White House. The Maryland delegation to the Presidential picket was organized by Mrs. Townsend Scott, chairman of the Maryland Branch of the Congressional Union. Among the representative women of the delegation were Mrs. William Fisher, Mrs. Maxwell Zurndorf, Mrs. Susanne Davis, Miss Eleanor White, Mrs. Olive Scott Gabriel, Mrs. Mark Jackson, Mrs. Almira Sweeten, Miss Florence McLouth, Miss Emma Morris, Mrs. Albert C. Miller and Mrs. Albert C. Kolls.

THER state and special days on the O picket line at the White House will follow each other in rapid succession up to the adjournment of Congress. Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Virginia and New York will all send large delegations to Washington to help in the White House guard within the coming two weeks.

re HIVALROUS in the best sense and often ti te C touching have been some of the trib-w te utes paid to the pickets. The attitude st 1d of the general public changed rapidly from atf

gaicty to admiration, as the thermometer sank and the real winter storms began. But there were many men and women who from the first recognized the utility of this picket on a President. One old gentleman on that first day paused a little startled at the burst of floating color just outside the great white gates. He slowly read the lettered golden banners: “Mr. President, how long must women wait for liberty?" Then he bared his white head and bowing with a real reverence in his demeanor he walked past the six silent sentinels, covering his head only to bare it again as he passed the six women at the western gate. He was one of those who have watched the long struggle of women for political liberty in this country; one who realized how patient and how self-effacing had been their protests, their attempts to draw the attention of the nation's chief to this proposition of fundamental justice. There was not a woman on the line that did not stand a little straighter and hold her banner a little higher after that gentleman passed.

--- page 5 ---
i

Washingten Children Presenting Flowers to the Pickets

On the second day the young pickets took their stands in increased numbers. When the Presidential car shot through the lower gate he laughed openly at the battery of earnest eyes. He has since reached that stage of friendliness to pickets that he bares his head as his car rolls by. And the same frankness and courage that forced the President to salute those Congressional Union banners that figured so largely in his late campaign in the West, is winning friend and foe alike as they stand at the White House gate.

HE close of the first week of the Con- T gressional Union for Woman Suffrage on the picket line marks a tremendous change in public opinion at the Capitol. There is a growing interest in the political significance of the lengthening guard at the White House with their lettered banners, and a declining interest in the vivid spectacle of the silent sen-

tinels as a mere curiosity. The public, in short, has readily accepted the suffrage demonstration in front of the White House as a legitimate piece of suffrage propaganda, as they accepted street speaking, a few years ago regarded as “militant." Even the conservative, accustomed by habit now to the daily scene of plucky young women at the White House holding high the suffrage colors in all weathers, have ceased to regard the new tactics as even “dangerous."

That a few Congressmen still take this attitude was shown by the protest of Representative Emerson, of Ohio, on the floor of the House, who wished the suffrage guard withdrawn as “an insult to the President." His protest met with no response from the other members.

O-OPERATION in the remotest states is, in fact, remarkable. From the Pacific Coast comes the news of meetings held to uphold the picketing principle, and to protest against the action of a President who has refused to stand behind the principle of political liberty for all the women of the nation. In Portland, Oregon, a meeting supporting the picket was held, with Dr. Florence Manion, state chairman, as speaker. Dr. Manion at this meeting started an “endless-chain" protest in Portland which she says will finally cover the state. The officers of the Union in Washington State believe that thousands of demands for the passage of the federal suffrage amendment, upholding the picket at the Capitol, will reach the President and leaders of Congress before adjournment.

5

--- page 6 ---
Suffragist

Columbian Printing Company, Inc., Washington, D. C.

Columbian Printing Company, Inc., Washington, D. C.

Entered as second-class matter, Nov. 14, 1913, at the Postoffice at Washington, D. C., under act of March 3, 1879

The President's Responsibility

WILSON has told the suffragists who urge him from all over the country to support the federal suffrage amendment and to use his power to get it through Congress this session that his commands come from his party and not from his private personal convictions. On January ninth he said to the Congressional Union deputation “It is impossible for me, until the orders of my party are changed, to do anything other than I am doing as a party leader." Thus the President disclaimed responsibility and put upon suffragists the whole burden of concerting action upon a principle in which he acknowledges belief.

Two weeks later, however, on January 18, the President made a special visit to the Capitol to confer with various members of Congress and with the Democratic steering committee in regard to legislation that he is anxious to have passed during the present short session. One of the measures he is urging most strongly is the Railroad Arbitration Bill. This bill, among others, he is so determined to see put through this session that he has announced his intention of coming three or four times a week to the Capitol to see how Congress is getting on with it. Already he is threatening an extra session if after all his efforts Congress should prove intractible to his will.

This kind of championship is exactly what the Congressional Union wants the President to give to the federal amendment and what he has said he cannot do for any cause unless definite commands are given him by his party. But no command in regard to the compulsory arbitration bill has been given President Wilson. The subject was not treated in the Democratic platform. The whole question of the railroad strike and the legislation proposed in connection with it came up several months after the platform was made. To get the action the President wants from Congress he will have to use all the power he has over his party. In the case of this issue he must certainly take all the responsibility as the real leader.

It would seem that the President can hardly go on denying after this that he molds his party when he wants to. There is no reason why he cannot exert his leadership for us if he will. He cannot continue to put off a great body of women demanding federal action on woman suffrage with such a flimsy excuse. It is as much in his power to lead his party to legislate for a measure involving the self-government of half the population of the United States as it is to lead it to legislate for a disputed labor question.

6

The Susan B. Anthony Amendment

an amendment to the Constitution of the United States extending the right of suffrage to women. Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled (tiwo-thirds of each House concurring therein), That the following article be proposed to the legislatures of the several States as an amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which, when ratified by three-fourths of the said legislatures, shall be valid as part of said Constitution, nmamely: ARTICLE—SEC. 1. The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of sex. “SEC. 2. Congress. shall have power, by appropriate legislation, to enforce the provisions of this article,"

THE AMENDMENT IN THE SIXTY-FOURTH CONGRESS Senate, on December 7, 1915, by Senators Sutherland, Thomas and Thompson. In the House, on December 6, 1915, by Representatives Mondell, Raker, Keating and Referred

In the Senate, to the Committee on Woman Suffrage. In the House, to the Judiciary Committee. Reported without recommendation by Sub-committee No. 1 to Judiciary Committee, February 15, 1916. Reported back by Judiciary Committee to Suborders to hold till December Tu o o M 14, 1918 to reconsider on March 28 motion to postpone consideration till December 14. Judiciary Committee voted on March 28to indefinitely (that is, until after clection) all constitutional amendments. Reported

In the Senate, January 8, 1916, the Sutherland Amendment, known as Senate Joint Resolution No. 1, by a favorable vote. In the House, December 14, 1916, the Raker Amendment, known as House Joint Resolution No. 1, without recommendation. Present Status On the Senate calendar awaiting action. On the House calendar awaiting action. HISTORY OF THE AMENDMENT Drafted In its present form, by Susan B. Anthony in 1875.

First Introduced January 10, 1878, by Hon. A. A. Sargent, in the Senate. Reported from Committee In the Senate 1878, Adverse majority. 1879, Favorable minority. 1882, Favorable majority, adverse minority. 1884, Favorable majority, adverse minority. 1886, Favorable majority. 1890, Favorable ority. 1892, Favorable majority, adverse minority. 1896, Adverse 1913, Favorable majority. 1914, Favorable 1916, Favorable majority. In the House

1883, Favorable majority, 1884, Adverse majority, favorable minority. 1886, Favorable minority. 1890, Favorable majority. 1894, Adverse majority. 1914, Without recommendation. 1916, Without recommendation. Voted Upon In the Senate

Voted Upon In the Senate January 25, 1887. Yeas 16, nays 34. Absent 26 (of whom 4 were anmd against) March 19, 1914. Yeas 35, nays 34, failing by 11 of the necessary two-thirds vote. In the House January 12, 1915. Yeas 174, nays 204, failing by 78 of the necessary two-thirds vote.

; Miss Joy Young Assistant Editors... Art Editor........ Mrs. Nina E. Allender Business Manager... Miss S. Ada Flatman Office Manager..... Miss Elizabeth Smith Chairman Cir. Dept..... Mrs. W. T. Burch

Subscription Price: Checks, drafts and postoffice orders should be made payable to The Treasurer of the Congressional Union.

--- page 7 ---
Ready for the Next Six Weeks' Siege Congressional Union Sentinels Leaving Headquarters on a Snowy Day

Ready for the Next Six Weeks' Siege Congressional Union Sentinels Leaving Headquarters on a Snowy Day

Giant Deputation to President on Eve of Inauguration

second term by initiating legislation that will dent. It will be the largest deputation of sufmean the freedom of American women. fragists that has ever come to express its wishes The demonstration planned for March fourth to a president, and its size must at last make will take the form of a deputation to the Presi- plain to the eye of the Administration the enorm-

HE siege of the President begun by the Congressional Union for Woman Suffrage little more than a week ago and participated in by women of all ranks and all political faiths as

a protest for political liberty will grow in numbers day by day, and will finally, if Congress has not in the meantime taken favorable action on the federal suffrage amendment, mass the united strength of these women in a giant demonstration on the eve of the President's inauguration.

On Inauguration Day President Wilson will be escorted up Pennsylvania Avenue by men. On March 4, the preceding day, if the suffrage amendment has not been passed, the women of the country, whose plea for enfranchisement the President has so far put off and evaded with unreal excuses, will rise in massed strength to demand that he start his

Connressinnal Rnion for Woman Suffrage

I expect to take part in the Deputation to the President, Sunday, March 4.

Name

Address

Telephone ————————Occupation

T Please meet at 12 o'clock at Congressional Union Headquarters, 21 Madison Place, Lafayette Square, Washington, D. C. Fill in the above form and mail to Congressional Union Headquarters.

7

ous popular force behind the pressure that is being exerted upon the Democratic party for federal action upon this question. This demonstration will be the culmination of the picket siege begun at the time of the President's last refusal to act.

Down all the history of democracy people have established their rights by showing thejr strength to the men in power. It is no new move for the disfranchised to march upon parliaments and surround heads of governments to remind them that they are waiting for justice. Let women, then, join in a deputation of such size that it will move the President and the Democratic party to recognize the strength as they have recognized the justice of their demand.

--- page 8 ---
South Dakota Organizes Branch of the Congressional Union

National Conventions of Congressional Union and Woman's Party

8

FTER six state referendums South Da- A kota has begun the fight for the enfranchisement of Dakota women through the Susan B. Anthony amendment to the Constitution. This is one of the significant facts of the week. With North Dakota, where the Congressional Union has an active. group, entering the group of states where women vote for President, and South Dakota recognizing that the federal amendment offers the short cut to suffrage, a long step ahead has been taken in the northwest which will make itself felt in Congress.

Miss Beulah Amidon, national organizer for the Congressional Union, spent a month in South Dakota arousing a general interest in the federal plan of action now being carried on in many parts of the country. She spoke in Deadwood, Aberdeen, Pierre and other cities, and many of the larger cities appointed delegates to the conference finally held in Sioux Falls.

Among the women sending out the call to this state conference were Mrs. W. S. Bickelhaupt, Aberdeen; Mrs. Frank Byrne, Pierre; Mrs. H. F. Fellows, Sioux Falls; Mrs. S. Narregang, Aberdeen; Mrs. W. L. Neil, Deadwood; Mrs. O. S. Pendar, Sioux Falls; Miss Mary Peabody, Sioux Falls; Mrs. S. Polley, Pierre; Mrs. A. A. McDonald, Sioux Falls; Mrs. D. E. A. Lundquist, Sioux Falls; and Mrs. A. R. Fellows, Sioux Falls.

HE South Dakota branch of the Union T was organized at a luncheon held at the Quaker Tea Room in Sioux Falls, S. D., on January thirteenth. Although it was one of the bitter cold days of the winter, with the thermometer at twenty below zero, and a gale blowing from the northwest, the tea room was filled to its capacity by women who were anxious to hear about the efficient work being done by the Congressional Union to further the federal amendment. Yellow roses and vio-

ALLS have been issued by the Executive C Committee of the Congressional Union for Woman Suffrage and by the Executive Committee of the National Woman's Party for conventions to meet in Washington on March first, second, third and fourth. These conventions, coinciding, will both meet at the national headquarters of the two organizations in Lafayette Square.

lets on the tables suggested the purple, white and gold of the organization. Seated at the long speakers' table at the head of the room were Miss Mary Peabody, one of the principals of All Saints' School in Sioux Falls, who acted as toastmistress; Mrs.

Mrs. H. F. Fellows Secretary South Dakota Congressional Union

H. F. Fellows of Sioux Falls, a young lawyer who is soon to go into practice with her husband; Mrs. A. R. Fellows of Sioux Falls, head of the associated charity work of the city; Mrs. Frank Weller of Mitchell, one of the

The program will be as follows: A reception for both- conventions. on Thursday vening, March first, at the national headquarters; business sessions on Friday and Saturday, March second and third; on the fourth, a giant demonstration of protest against the disfranchisement of women, ending in a mass meeting on the evening before the Inauguration.

pioneer suffragists of the state; Mrs. A. A. McDonald;, Miss Margaret Whittemore, the principal speaker of the conference; and Miss Beulah Amidon, who assisted Miss Whittemore in the plans for the South Dakota conference. In opening the program that followed the luncheon, Miss Peabody spoke of the new spirit of cooperation and solidarity that is growing up among women. She then introduced Miss Amidon, who told of the Woman's Party campaign in the west.

Miss Whittemore sketched briefly the growth of the Congressional Union, as the natoral outcome of Susan B. Anthony's farsighted plan to employ the political power of women to obtain political freedom for all the women of the United States. She told in detail the work being done by the Congressional Union in Washington, and the imperative need for cooperation from every state. “There must not be one broken link. The women of the nation must stand together in their demand for justice."

The meeting then went into executive session. A constitution was adopted, and a state board elected. Mrs. A. R. Fellows of Sioux Falls, was elected state chairman, with Mrs. W. L. Bickelhaupt of Aberdeen, first vicechairman, and Mrs. Oliver Pendar of Sioux Falls, second vice-chairman. Mrs. H. F. Fellows of Sioux Falls, was elected secretary, and Mrs. Frank Weller of Mitchell and Miss Mary Peabody of Sioux Falls were elected directors. It was voted to send resolutions to President Wilson, to Mr. Henry, chairman of the Rules Committee, to the Speaker of the House, and to the Vice-President, demanding the immediate passage of the federal suffrage amendment.

Greetings by letter, with expressions of hearty sympathy and cooperation were received from many parts of the state, including the cities of Deadwood, Plankinton, Pierre, Aberdeen, Dell Rapids, Hunters Grove, and Huron. Four South Dakota members announced that they would attend the National Conference of the Congressional Union in Washington, March 4.

For all general information about the conventions write to the Chairman of the Committee on Arrangements. Miss Edith Goode, chairman of the Hospitality Committee, is making an effort to supply free hospitality to all delegates who desire it, and will furnish addresses of boarding-houses and hotels to any one who wishes such information.

--- page 9 ---
es o

Cleveland, Ohio, Leader, January I2

Suffrage Tactics

EN wouldn't do a thing like that." M This is the comment of your typical politician about the woman suffragists silent sentinel plans for their White House patrol. The sentiment hints at some deep philosophy about the woman suffrage movement. The women have done many things that men would not have done—that men would have not thought of.

Won't some psychologist give the woman suffragists credit for one thing—that they have furnished an exhibit for the laboratory clinicians of human nature to study? Mere male students have been speculating for centuries about how the mind of woman works; the women have supplied a sort of suffrage test tube in which they have given all the experiments any scientist ought to need, to show how their minds operate.

Maybe mere man stands aghast at their ways because they are so different. He has to admit, if he be candid, that in this suffrage campaign they have got results. They have worked a political revolution in this country in a way no other revolution was ever waged before. There may be annoyance about these ubiquitous banners that drop forth on the most solemn

Comments of the Press

state occasions, about these piping inquiries in the midst of dignified ceremonies, about these symbolic figures, six from the suffrage states, six from the “enslaved" ones, marching silently to and fro in front of the Executive Mansion, where things are supposed to proceed regularly and in order. Still, there is no bloodshed, and the thing is all open and above board, painfully so to some politicians, and women may yet prove that their political way is just as good or better a way than the old.—H ashington, D. C., Times, January 10.

L When the President promised the suffrage convention last August that he intended to fight for them, some of them were so unemotional as to wonder just what he meant. The pause from September to January seemed rather long to some. But a great offensive takes a long time to prepare. The other day the first blow was struck.

The President asked the suffrage pickets to come in and warm their feet.—Alice Duer Miller, in the New York Sunday Tribune.

The Terrible Thunder of War THE first gun has been fired.

The Cut Direct

CERTAINLY have had an ordeal to-day." I The President of these United States made the remark at his luncheon table. It was on the day when the delegation of suffragists waited on him to present to him the Inez Milholland Boissevain resolutions. He said that they ran in an unexpected question on him, when he was expected only to listen— not to reply. There was a guest present at the luncheon, and this guest met a mere reporter, to whom he happened to pass on the President's words.

The question now arises whether, if he regarded the first encounter as an ordeal, how has he felt about to-day? The sequence of events up to 11:30 this morning was as follows Twelve bright-faced suffragists, with their lovely purple and yellow banners, arrayed themselves in lines of three on either side of the main entrance of the White House. One of their banners said: “Mr. President, how long do you mean to keep us waiting?" You know the story. They became provoked at the meeting of the day before which to President Wilson was an ordeal, and the Congressional Union decided to keep silent sentinels outside his gates, always standing there in the gold —Mary Brush Williams in New York Tribune, January 11.

An Ordeal

--- page 10 ---
o o Wo .

10

The President's Position

RESIDENT WILSON administered a thinly p veiled rebuke to the Congressional Union for opposirg him in the late election. Broad-minded, generous, and Lincoln-like, as usual.—Chicago Tribune, December 12. Vigor of Suffragists

T is no particular joke to stand guard for I eight hours in a climate which is registering six degrees below freezing. I once saw at a performance of “Every Man" one of the monks who is supposed to stand throughout the production fall from the mere exhaustion of standing. The women on guard at the White House have exhibited no such physical insufficiency. They were standing straight and firm when night closed over the White House and ended their vigil.—Mary Brush Williams in New York Tribune, December 14.

Danger Ahead

OT Bricks Provided for Suffragist Pickets," H announces a headline. Although these bricks are provided to keep the feet of the pickets warm it would be well to remember that in the past suffragists have found other uses for bricks.— ashington Herald, December 14. rr

Picketing Well Organized all movements which the Congressional Union takes up, this one is being organized on a grand scale.—W ashington Times, January 11.

Wilson and Suffrage M WILSON in the same breath asserts his sympathy with the cause presented by these

women, and expresses the belief that “it is only through the instrumentality of parties that things can be accomplished" in this country. Then of what value, to him as a sincere man, or the party of which he is the leader, or the country whose course must be colored by his convictions and his policies, is his sympathy, if he abandons his convictions and beliefs through the tricky expedient of failure to place them emphatically before his party?

There was no concerted party action in favorof enactment of the Adamson law, or of any of the railroad legislation program outlined by him many months ago and still insisted upon; yet he took the reins and pushed action. There was certainly no Democratic party demand for child labor legislation which, moreover, went flatly against the Democratic party's ancient profession of faith in States rights; yet here Mr. Wilson took the reins and secured action. If Mr. Wilson consistently applied similar tactics in the case of the woman suffrage amendment he could demand and secure impressive action, possibly victory.

We are driven to the conclusion either that he is mot sincere in his profession of devotion to the cause of equal suffrage, or that if sincere his conviction is blocked by small and unworthy political considerations.—Boston Record, Jan. 10.

The Straight and Narrow Path

There Are Pickets by the Fence By Anon Y. Mous

1ST! The house—it is surrounded, H Goodness gracious—how we're hounded Great democracy's unfounded This is awful; what suspense Look! What's that? A banner waving? Like a loon they'll have me raving, O, such naughty misbehaving— There are pickets by the fence

Pickets IN the fence, that's decent; But the impudence malfeasant Of this innovation recent; It's effrontery is immense. Are these ladies anger baiting? Chivalry they'll turn to hating, Or—is't merely “watchful waiting" By those pickets—by the fence?

Silent, sad, sweet suffrage sisters, Standing till thy feet are blisters Trying to brow-beat us misters; Obstinacy most intense I'll protest in angry passion Gainst this latest London fashion, Write a note without compassion, Chase thee far from my front fence

Washington Herald, January 14.

Agitation in Washington

HERE is once again a tremendous agitation in Washington over the suffrage cause.— New York Tribune, December.

Cleveland Plain-Dealer, January 18

--- page 11 ---
womer. Johnstone—New York Evening World, Januory 17

Johnstone—New York Evening World, January 17

An Ungraceful Position

R. WILSON, more than any other Presi- M dent, has taken the initiative in legislation. Less than half a year ago he surprised his party out of its boots by proclaiming the eight-hour day principle. Now-he repeats his pious regrets and tactless excuses over being unable to lend more than a private voice to the suffrage cause.

The suffragists have a right to feel peevish. Without hoping that their campaign makes Mr. Wilson nervous, one may hope it makes him conscious of his ungraceful position on an important domestic issue.—Boston Journal, January 10.

HE silent sentinels have progressed. They have reached the point where there are violent protests against them. Everybody knows that a movement is really on its feet when the world divides itself into factions and begins wrangling over it. Recall in this connection the movement for the higher education of women, the emancipation of women, and so on.— Moary Brush Williams, in New York Tribune, December 14.

Wilson and the Pickets

R. WILSON only smiles at the suffrage M pickets—who, doubtless, remember that she who laughs last laughs best—Boston Journal, January 10.

F Mr. Wilson had picketed Mexico as well as I the suffragists picket the White House, all would be well.—Boston Journal, January 18.

Philadelphia Evening Bulletin, January 16

Demands Now: Not Requests EA men! Yea menl Yea menl Fight 'em, Y Fight 'em, Fight 'em." This is a yell used by the student body at Ann Arbor during a football game. It is inspiring rather than pugnacious. It nerves the football squad into a fighting, though not pugilistic spirit.

This same yell, with a minor change, seems to have been adopted by the equal suffrage women of the United States as represented by the Woman's Party. If they do not yell it, they think it deep down in their hearts, this way: “Yea women! Yea women! Yea women! Fight 'em, Fight 'em, Fight 'em."

That is the spirit of the women of today toward the dominant political party. They are no longer attempting to catch the support of the national congress by soft soap and taffy methods. In order to be properly heard, they must make themselves feared at the polls.

There is nothing which makes a politician sit up and take notice more than threatened defeat at the polls. The only way in which some men in office can be reached, is by a threat to retire him to private office. Men in office worship at the shrine of Strength and laugh at Weakness.

The women of America, demanding the vote, realize that much of their efforts have been wasted in the past by their docility and lambweakness. Now they are more militaristic. They do not hesitate to call a spade a spade and to denounce those who they think should be denounced. They do not stop even at the President of the United States, if they think he deserves criticism.

Women must demand, nowadays. Requests are too often lost on the four winds—Bay City, Michigan, Tribune, December 8.

Watchful Waiting

HE vigil of the women suffragists outside the White House grounds must come under the head of watchful waiting.—Philadelphia Press, January 18.

The Silent Sentinels

An Example

11

A.T. Lowis 8 Son Dry Goods Co. Denver, Colo. A Store where no transaction is comete until the customer is satisfied.

1310 CHESTNUT STREET, PHILA. Suits, Coats, Gowns, Blouses, Skirts Millinery, Furs

Exclusively for Women Then why not stay at Hotel Rutledge Lexington Ave. and 30th St. New York Rooms from $1.00 daily Room with full board from $12.00 to $18.00 per week. All outside rooms

1222 Walnut St. "Stole without Extravagance" Philidelphia PERSONAL SERVICE PRINTIN G 621 Plymouth Court The Sign of Quality C H I C A G O

Drawing Rooms For Rent 21 MADISON PLACE N. W. Washington, D. C.

HE attractive drawing rooms of Cameron House are for rent for private entertaining and for club and society meetings. Low rental for their use afternoons and evenings. One dressing room and the service of maid, also open fire if desired. For small clubs or committees requiring only one room special arrangements will be made. Visitors will be welcome to look over the rooms. For further information apply to Mrs. Ella Dean, Official Hostess.

--- page 12 ---
12

5,000 New Subscribers

Subscribers for " lLhe Suffragist Mothproof bags and paper for protecting the (n this column we list the swbscriptions sent winter clothing, carpets, rugs, curtains, ete. G. Ka Son in each week by our members. This is only o port of the total number of new swbscriptions DECEMBER 31 THROUGH JANUARY 6 aul Institfute"" anstts 5. Paul, LL..8. January 1 moOt S Street. N.W. e Now in Prog 1 Miss Mabel Vernon........ 1 large savings on PRINTERS:. Miss Vids Milholtand..11632 Meadow Street Philddphis, P. dress accessories a Mrs. W. Thompson Burch.............. 2 Telophone Fhd. 2 1 1 mecessitics. Miss Margaret Fay Whittemore.......... 2 Special Signs Poir Miss Eliabet B. Hedrick. DANCE Miss Katharine A. Morey.............. 1 Dr. Gillette 2 Under the auspices District of Columbia Bronch 21 Will be held at National Headquarter Previously acknowledged in Tas Sur- AGIT ... 0 ashington, D. C., urday, 8: M., e Total through January eth secured by January 27, 1917. D. Tickets, including refreshments, $1.00 FOR SALE ———————— per person, may be had at door. THE WOMAN OrTLEN'S Edited by Shailer Matthe Wash Skirts of Your Material Louis Brown's Orchestra. Chairman Committee on Arrange- , WIL SON ments, Mrs. W. T. Burch. ial price to clubs or active 1418 Stevens Building Chicago, Ill. THE o FURNISHED APARTMENTS: adio Apply Miss Wilson, 280 St. Georse TELEPHONE MAIN o Lanman Engraving Co. rentann's HALF TONES. 2C Booksellers, Engravers and PROCESS ENGRAVERS e IoL A oT POST BUILDING Washington, D. C. WEST END TRUST Polish and purify your Cooking Utensils with PHILADELPA, PA. Old Dutch CAPITAL and SURPLUS The Hygienic Cleanser $4,000,000 Receives Deposits ' Acts as Enxecutor, Administrator Guardian, Trustee, Agent Ool n Sells Foreign Exchange, Travelers' d Dutc Letters of Credit, Express Checks ( eanse r Maintains an Up-to-date Safe Deposit all A Department a Department for trun and packages Manages Real Estate, Collects Rents etc. Lends Money on Approved Collateral
