--- page 1 ---
ahe Revolution.

THE TRUE REPUBLIC—MEN, THEIR RIGHTS AND NOTHING NMORE WONEN, TEETR RIGHTS AND. FOTNIwG LESS.

VOL. V.—NO. 15.

VOL. V.—NO. 15.

Che Hrnslntion

PUBLISHED WEEKLY, $3 A YEAR. WEw YORX CrTY SUBSORIERS, $3.20. ELIZABETH CADY STANTON, Raitor. PAULINA WRIGHT DAVIS, Cor. Bditor. SUSAN B. ANTHONY, Proprieter.

OF FIOR, 49 EAST TWENTY-THIRD ST., N. Y.

Tortry.

SONNET.

Wa weary at the messure of our tash More than m doing, and the visioned lengts Of our grest journey more consumes the strength Than the one step by step the moments ssk. One pulse is all of hfe, one second's beat The utmost impact of eternity The insistent drop gives all the tidal ses, The immancut ray the whole sun's conquering hest. Great triumpbs are the work of each grest blow Storuck now—and now, th' exhaustiess repetend Of Power's unit, that imvolves no end Bocsuse it is oternsl in its mow Move only this next stom by thy band And the great world shall swing at thy command Ozonor S. BURLEION

THERE is in souls a sympathy with sounds, And a tho mind is pitoned the ear is pi With melting sirs or martial, brisk or grave Some chord iu unison with what we besr 1s touched within us, and the beart replies. How soft the music of those vi.lage bells, Falng at intervas upon the ear In cadence sweet, now dying sll away. Now pealing loud agsin, and louder still. Clear and sonorous, as the gale comes on With essy force it opens all the cels Where memory slept.

WH. COwPER.

SONG OF THE BELL

Be| thou soundest merrily, When the bridsi party To the churon doth hie Bell thou soundest solemnly. When, on Rabbath morning.

Boll thou sonndest merrily Tollost thon at evening. Bod-time araweth nish non thoo soundest mournfolly. Telost thou the bitter Partimg hath gone by how canst ho mor Row censt tho reote Thou art but mets a And yet all our sorrowings. And sll our rejoieing

God beth wonders many. Whioh we csnnot thom Pi wit y for When the hert is inhi Thou sone canst reie Trembling in the storm

H. W. Loworssow

NEW YORK, THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 1870

(Enteret ocordimg to At of Comgrem, m e yr 1870, by Allos Cary, in the Clerk's Offos of the District Oourt of the United Ststes, for the Southern District of New York.)

The Born Thrall

The Born Thrall

RY ALICE CARY. CHAPTEER I RACHEL's STORT. RAOHEL. having carefully set the house in order, so that the eyes of Mr. Ripley might not in the morping find themselves offended by evidenocs of the last might's revel, resmrned to ber little filends im the garret.

The rain stifl sounded on the roof, and a great beam, rather than flash, of lightning illumined all the wide room as she entered. Janey wes fast asleep, and, baving passed ber hand tenderly along the monstrous besd with its short olipt bair, and little peaked face, orossed the room coftly, paited the curtsins, and wes in her own littie "ohamber. The candle still burned, but very dimly, for even s tallow candle has its requirements, and gives back better ight when it is set in s can diestick, and trimmed and tended, than when stuck in s junk-bottle and left to take care of itself.

The half hour seemed very long to Theress. as she lay there is that little chamber, wide awake, pondering upon many things, and ber beart fluttering up into her mouth if a mouse but crossed the floor. She was, therefore, very gind when Rachel spoke, even thoagh sbe only said Are you asleep, Tressy?" O no!" she answered quickly, lifting her head fiom the pillow. and looking at Rachel who bad just closed her little worn Bible, and wee repiacing it beside the hymn-book on the osken chest, which served her at onoce for table and oratory.

There were traces of tears on her cheeks. but ber face was white, and quiet almost as stone. She seemed to bave forgotten thet whe bad spoken to Theresa, and for a minnte or more remained motionless. ber bare feet peeping from the folds of her night-gown., and her bands lyimg 14ly together in ber lap. “What time do you think it is?" inqeired Theres, more for the sake of saying something than from any mterent in the quo. Rachel did not know—she bad not thought about it, she smd. Do you suppose it can be midnight? hear the cooks orowing. Thers went on Rechel could not tell whether or mot t wee midnight—abe had not hesrd the crowing of the oooks. Don't you bear them now?"

she dd mot hear them She had taken off ber filmy oap by this time, and thick masses of her bright han ll down sbout her pock, and among the white folds of

WHOLE NO. 1189.

ber might dress, anas she aat there—ber eves resching far sway. she looked like some saimt at her moditaton. Do you think M. Toplow very henasome " Therens asked, striving. by some mesns, to engage her attention. Sbe had not hesrd the question, and when was repestod, smd., the ad not know whst she thought—in truth, she h not out of Then whet beve you thought sbout," askes O my child! my dear, imnooent ohild1 have thought of all my ie—my wasted, weary “"Well, don't think any more now. and dont sit there alone. I am used to be aione," Rachel answered. I want you to come.

Tou want me to come?" and Rechel's fon assumed tn imot ard pro “Yes, to be sure. I beve hept wide awaks, waiting for you so come, dear Rechel." No, child—I would rather not—I often st bore all might. out her arms snd almost aragged Rechel to the pillow. She was trembling from besd to to0t, wnd Theress inquired if she were oold?" “No, she was not col—be oould pot tel why sbe should shake so—really it almost made ber lsugh." Theress aid ber obeek sofly agninst Raobers, for she had felt the tears in ber faltering voice all the while she spoke—and there they were. sore enough—grest soslding arope—alling o thick and so fast.

Softly the young hands wwootbed the bar from the forebesd, snd softly the young srme got themsetves about the meok. drooping so how to the throbbing bosom. ? ot touch me you kme—be turmed ber face quite dow upon ber piliow. ans sobbed as if ber hesrt would bresk If I knew what ?and without waiting to be answered, Theress went on—"yeos. I woutd touc you Rae t t hseng orslt p , e on ber eibow. and leaming to the white, besvimg Rachel better then word. could bave done. tht she pitied ber orr hon. m bomg t ber.

Reaohel aid ow . for e to meke us undertand that we re belod. am mot sure, indoed. but thet e e whatever is highont an bo. om through int She kmew , fo an ven the ron t the o boee t e p So when the grest burdes of be groitde hed bad sts sapresion, Reohel 1 from the piliew; for the Sower besten meve e

--- page 2 ---
226

dow by the storm, will rise up again in the sunshine. Then it is one of the penslities which the beloved must pay for their love—they are no longer quite free. Whoever beheves in us, and trusts us, institutes by the behef and the trust, a right over us, in some sort. Henoeforward, we do not what we would, but whet we must.

For a good while not a word was spoken. Rachel had never in her life hed s confidant. but the long-suppressed yearnimg for sympsthy had become a passionate longing, and if sbe uttered one word, she felt tnat her heart must pour itself sll out. Love was the one grest need of her gentle, reliant pature, and shut out from its very sembiance so long—she was bungry, aimost stavms. Theress was silent, mmply because she could think of nothing to say, neither had she ever had a confidant, but she neoded none. Hers was a sweet, but not a spontaneous nature—there are some flowens that shut themselves up from the very light, and she was like them. She had none of that res dimens of speech that makes a companion so charming, and as for her inmost soul uttering itself to any other soul—that had mever come withio ber experience. So botween the grest need of the one., and the small need of the other, the silence remaied a good while unbroken ; but by and by as Bachel folt the tender paddlimg of a band upon her own, she oould no longer restrain her impulse, and began to speak of this and that at random. Theresa did httle more than listen. but she listened so sympatheteally that it was all that was required.

Rachel told her in the first place all sbout coming to live with ber good unole 1s'rl, and then she talked a great deal in his praise, brnging out all the fine qualities which she feared Theresa might mever have seen or thought about, as indeed she bad mot. She said not a word of the good quslities of her aunt Lydis— doubtioss feelmg that ber goodness spoke for itsolf. She told all about Mrs. TPoplow and her boarding house in North Town—all about Mr. Toplow and his fine socomplishments. And all about Pitkim and his luckless star—not as idly gossiping, but sympsthetically and tenderly. As, howoever, these persons will speak for themsclves in the oourse of our story, her account of them need not be repesated here.

An hour passed, in barm loss and various telk, light, and natural. as the singing of burds, and at the end of it, such relations ss it sometimes requires years to bring about bad been estabisned between them. Trustrul, harmoniots and on the part of one. at least, close on the borders of confidence. “When you come here again," ssid Rachel, you must briug your copy-book with you— will you, Tressy " I don't know why ?"asked Theress, but in her hesit she did know, and was pleased. “Boecause," answered Rachel. "they say you have compositions in it, good enough to print in the newspapers. Isn't it truet Who says so" O, everybody. Mr. Ludlow for one. “Theon you know our schoolmaster, do you"

Tressy folt Rachel's heart beat inst beneath her band, as she answered—1 used to know him, but of late years I have mot seen him muob, only as it bappened—and then she talked sout the copy-book agin. You mey see it some time," Theress rephed, "though there is mothing in worth showing. Mr. Ludlow preiss me to plosse Doreas—that s all. But what's the matter 1

h Reoes hea we uttring r is in the smare. Nothing, nothing—then sfier thinking to berseif, abe as1d. What do you write sbost. Tossy ?Not sbout folks and things in this country. I suppose ? You must bave people of quality, aud fine houses, and grand parks to make books, mon't you I only try to write what I know sbout, s3id Theresa, and I find it bard emough to make others aee what I have seen myself a great many times. I don't know how real writers 3o.

Do you think." Rechel said, after s time. her hend nervous'y twitching. do you think anybody would care to resd a story sbout a common woman, like me, for instemoe? I am sure I should," replied Tressy. be cause I could understand it all. Thus encouraged, Rachel said, stroking the cheek of ber listener. "I know some faots about a young woman (one that you never saw) and about a young man, that you never ssw either, thet I have sometimes thought would make a if they were written out—s very sad story." She besitated, and then sdded. may be when you come to write stories for the papers you could take this that I know to build one out of may be, though, it wouldn't be good enough.

“Oyes it would!"cned Tressy, eagerly. adding in a lower and sadder tone—"1I don't suppose I shall ever write a story to print, but I want to bear it, for all that." And then more gaily, Come, my ears are open just as wide as my eyes!"And teking Rechel's hand in hers she passed it across her eyes, that sbe berself might teol how wide open they were. Rachel sad (Hesven forgive ber) that she did mot know as she could remember all the story ; t had been a good while since she heard it—that it was mot much of a story—nothing, sbe was sure, when she oame to thnk of it, thet would ever do to be written tor the peper. Thereta was importunste, however—snd Rachel relsted in substance the following. Her precise words bave not st all times been retained:

Once there was a poor girl, who had peither mother nor father, both had died when she was very young ; sbout ber father, she could remember perfotly, but of the motber who dies earher, very httle—such memories as she bad. however, were extremely viwd. For instanoe, in ber mind, she had alwsys s pioture of ber pale and ek, propped wp m bed with pillows. and with dim eyes stitobing the sieeve of shirt.

Always, whenever she thought of it, she conld see how the red spots looked in her cheeks on that day, and the very way ber oap slipped from ber bead and bung over ber shoulder by the strings. She could remember bow ofton she hed picked up the timble which would mot stay on any more ; and bow bot the bands feit when she touched them. Sbe remembered. too, thmking that day, that mother wes gomg to get woll and with what a light hesrt she skipped away o pay wisit to the beee, tht d i cormer of the gerden. She could remember another day, too, hot, suffooeting dny. when the doors tood wide, and the bed in the miadle of the room, snd whon the weighbors went and cume—one or more being with them ail the time, till about sunset, whon they were all obliged to go away—or they were poo, berd working peopie-and must be bome at th o o the it oame about, that she herel w at the bedside slone ; her sister—she had one

siter oo Genl oior h — goe out to milk the oow. The fece looked so white on the piilow, ans the bands lny 5o motioniens, the Hee g was no answer—she hed pever before spoken thet pame itont reoing oe—.Be wd directly in faltering tones1 thh. Tressy—I csn't go on with the story. unlem 1 te this part of tht te Theress enoouraged ber to tell the story in her own way, and she went on, sobbing sometimes between the wordsa

Well, then. 1 will ssy. I was thet listhe girh thet 1 was afrmd when I had called my mother nd she mad. mo amwer he we mling as she always did, only somehow the smule seemed to beve in it more pescs than 1 had there, and slipping close I towohed her foe. It was oold a 10e—se was den." When Rechel bad wid a few words concerning the funersl, and proceeded to tal of mat ters les sacred. the story was shifted to the third person again.

Sbe told bow these poor orphans the one being old enough to do the bouse-work, continned to live with their iather in s wretohed and impoverisbed way, snd bow be soon lost the formerly kept shve in him—bow be took to drinking and other bad habits—stayed sway from bome all day. snd all might sometimes and how the children lived in s state of porpetual anmety sud terror."

One of the watches, many of which they —“has often to1d me about. The asy bed bee bitter oold, and the might was clest and bright as an ioscle. They bept the fire blaning. a lons as there was any wood to burn. but s few stcks could mot lest all might, mor but s short part of it—the flame flickered, snd fell and die—the winds blew down the chimney and arove the cold ssbes about the bearth—the ff branohes ttied on the wll oute a dead leaves, that whirled past the door, macs them fear some murderer wes coming. At lest they were sfrai to spenk alond and cowered over the dyimg fire or stood st the window prowsing their inoes agaimst the panme. and loo ing along the bloe mrnpe. where the frot ghistened in the moomgbt without ayng single word

The hours aragged by. ome after sncther twelve o clock ome—oe—wo—and the yon er of the twe sunk on the fio and foll sieep. her bare foet n the asheon. and bor oheks wet with tears.

Father's coming"was the ory thst wako hor—they hurd the sash. and looked out Nobody was br soen. but they could aistinedy hon the hoo of horse. striking hp stones of the trme— e woul e. bling moiehe was og e the bollow —ey w ore—hey would ru o p t—y could see the white oe he they. kpew e wll oming up hs long wi lg O o i nd rowing open the ge they the me o e o. then the othertherl fthes Ne amewe

--- page 3 ---
was returned, but then be was Hkely to be cross, or sullen when he came home so iste st night. Nearer and mearer oame the borse ; nd the two girls, the wind tambling their batr and tossing their thin frocks, bent forward, suraining their eyes to see. No father wes there—st least, mot in the saddle—but why should the horse walk 4o slowly and caretully, and whst was that dragging st his heels, which he turned back his head to watch! They knew all too soon—poor children—their fathes in a drunken fit had frozen to death as he rode between the tavern and his house, and by the foot caught m the stirrup as he fell, had been dragged along. And there ha was—his bair matted with blood, and mouth and hauds full of dust, lying before the faces of his children in the grey light of the morning, making them even more afraid of him in death than they had been in life.

Pausing at this point, Rachel said it must be a terrible thing to have a drunken father, and to have him die as this man had died. It must be dreadful to have had such an example, dreadful to inherit shame and disgrace, that all the water in the world mever can wash out. “Those who have no taint in their blood"— she went on, and who are brought up in the way they should go, ought to be charitable to those who are sinners by nature, and who have never been presched to, nor prayed for in all their lives, except in the way of denuncistion. And yet some men seem to think it their duty to take God's work out of his hands, as if they feared he might so oool the coals of fire in the sinmer's bosom thst they would not burn. "But you forget the story !" said Thoresa.

O yes, where was 1t Well, soon after the father was laid away, with a little rough stone at his head and another st his feet, the two sisters were separated, mever, never to be united again in this world—perbaps not in snother; for one of them got religion and joined the church, and the other became woridly and wicked. They were separated and cach went her own way to work for herself, sud earn her living as best she could. The older of the two was wuecessful in whatever she undertook, and had always a good plsce and bigh wages, so that she gradually got to feel herself above the younger sister, who had hard work to get a place at any price; and finally marrying s well to do farmer she cessed to make any concealment of her indifference.

The new prosperity weemed to blind ber to sfl the dark times that were p ast, and the poor litte sister that had worked with her so many days—watohed with her in sorrow so often, and slept on the same pillow so many nights, was never looked after, and never thought about. Nobody kept her long, poor child, and yet it did wot seem so much her fanlt as her misfortune.

She was not, in the first place, strong and courageous like the other sister—she conld not shoulder of the bard looks and hard words of the morning, put on ber best and dance at the quilting, or the apple-cutting in the evening— she was much more likely to steal away in the moonlight when the work was done, and think oyor he hardships and hopelessnes of ber tot She knew she had no right to be sensitive, but her mothor bad been so bofore her—like your Aunt Ripley, obild, whose tears 1 bave seen falling many s time, till the sewing work, or the knitng work in her hand wes wringing wet. It seomod to hey indeed that whe eould pot

he t t y this she deoetved berseif “There was, bowever, one respoct in which the younger had the adventage of the elser sistor—shewae called prettser—perhaps most people would think sbe was so, but 1 pever did.” “Then you knew these young women well?" interrupted Theresa.

Oyes, Rachel knew them well, one of them. certainly, as well as she aid berseli—in fact the person and fortunes of the one she knew best had in some sort resembled her own. But you must not judge of her besuty by the way I look nmow!" sbe entreated. “I don't 100k a bit as she did when sbe was young; ber eyes, everybody ssid, were full of love and trust, and bright as two morning glories in the dew, and mine are not like that, you know they are sad, and dim, and distrustful, I am afrmd, sometimes—but why they should heve that iast look I cannot tell—not from anything in my experience."

O no, the young womsn didn't look at all as she did then, Rackel said, it was of when she was fifteen or sixteen, that she owas thinkimg mostly. Her complexion was then like a roselonf in timt and softness, and ber hawr so abundant it lay along ber forenead as if it were combed over a cushion. Sbe used to wear it in a single knot at the back of her hesd, and sometimes in the sseson of flowers she would make a simple wreath and wear it of an evening. Of course Rachel did not look as this young girl did, how could she? with ber weary workday face, and faded hair and smile. o

But Rachel oould not go on until sbe hed 21d she was sorry she had in any way compared the young woman she was talking of to berself—in fact, sbe knew on refiection that there was very little, if any resemblance between thom. She hoped Tressy would not confound the young womsan with herself, snd she oould not rest satisfied til she had aked outright whether or not the story remimded ber of anybody she had ever seen. O no," Tresay ssid, it didn't remind ber of anybody she had ever seen, but all the while she couldn't help confounding the voung woman of whom Recbel talked with Racbel bersolf.

(To be continued. S AVE D. T

I one of the beantitul cities which dot the Peninwuinr State ves my beroine not one of siry shape, mere fancy of the brain, but a res entity. While engaged as toncber in this oity t was my good fortune to form ber soqusintance and a warm fmendship sprang .up between us. The mks are bright to-9ay Springing froms family of oenius, pesr skin to one, whose name is household word, whose brave words and deeds have biessed thousands of homes as they brightened the print page. around which the family circle gathered to beton and love. Boing a genins bersel, weading the common and bighet walks of life, may not her ex periene ronghe om p sistor. tranded among the qui o , tempted in like manper, yet without sis?

Let os turn backward time's lvee for one eonde and see what is insoribed thereon In the

227

speing of 19650, a mew minister come to the ty ofA— 3 po t p His miion o p of Christ's followers—to break the breas of Hfe fom the pulptt recenly mede vaosnt by the Geat of its beloved pestor. The isten, Fatber Momes, bad awelt long. smong te fioo whic was just now without a eertnl; shepberd. By Geods which alome reoh the ert p m10 hariaie mope d e won ored pisce in the memory of his peopis. He was revered aod loved by all. There sre few such nobls men filling this oalbng sot tered along the more stern and rugged of lits's ways. They sre as Rodoemers stan ding between the inner and the outer world, weeping at bay the unwholesome behef of total depravity.” But time, the grat imnovster. places in the footprints of loved ones the strangers feot

Rev. Mr. Dernam had been selected at the Genersl Conferemoe to fill this vaosney. Let us giance at him., Possessed of mors than oro which bad stood by him not only financislly. n driving sharp bargains, but which cousd be callod imto use in emergencies he could extricate himself from almost any tangied web Nature bad bestowed prepowsessing testures and s fine address. The phrenoiogioal bump of selfotoem had developed into oon ness, pot of faftn, but knowiedge of a certin power and mfinence he ooutd wield over the minds of otbers. With s sstisfied expression and assurance, be said, “I will win my way to

In the cxternal, the savantages soomed to drift towards his present calting. But from whenoe came this cali? Was it from Gebriel resching him, s3own the ahining oorridors of eternity ? It may be so. Yet doubts obsoure the borosoope of my mental vision as I try to posr into the beyond, and solve the tern of things.

The good people of A— and smong them Mra. Goodner, the widowed mother of my fend Evelene—did all in their powes to weloome make s bome for the mew minister. His lot wee oat mong them and should 1t mot prove to be one cast in ploasat places. Mrs. Goodner wee ome of thoe whoe at. ring te in stant rebuke to the eany issonsbles whe ortainly are mo useful ornsment to socity. Deprived by death of the surong wrm, left to bet de alome with unroward ciremstanors fotterod by the law in settling up the estste, property. the busband supposed to be an ampe support, but whioh fell far short of it, with four chuldren, the eldent nly fourteen. whet wes to be done but a large amount both of besd wn band-werk?This the brave womsn resolved to do, overcoming sud surmounting every ai ouly but lshe te ar roughnes of this unexpiored bigh-on. None save those whe bave wall wd over the horns know all thesr sherpness.

or ante tien, possessing s metore judgment beyond her yoars, was soureoom ope Boe e , trom bigh. f browye. ick p ones, which you lowe to look doep meo. Inne contly the soul peered out of thoe o ing windows, and you quy h t o te afectiomte chid Anoher and reotwd rom e oy Bt e w wictim. Sange bet , be ro ques, though yours ing betwen bim d woni e pre We whudder we in ew o

--- page 4 ---
228

flond inoarnate plan the Gestruction of so much innooemos? And who should that one be but $he wolf in sheep's wool who had come to dwell among them True he had a wife and one prattiing babe. but d this quench the fires within, ighted as they must have been by that sulphurous flsme which ocoasionally he dealt out to his hstening congregation ? There was another shading to the pioture. In the back ground of Lis plans stood that strong-minded and consequently fer-seeing

He must ingratiate himself into her favor. He must win her confidence, this would pave the way to the dsughter's heart. He was assured of success, be had never farled, why should he now, but how soon was the only question for solution? Time would solve the problem. The mother, too, was besutiful, was an envisble mark for him, but he had no hope there. Neither pinching poverty nor want, like a derk oloud, hung over her horizon. Ab! how well the skilled libertime knows how and whers to spread his mets. Beside, sbe had been educated to s trade, a profession which mow in the hour of need was to ber a safe-guard and support. Men so0 and realize this strong barricade raised against the tempter's wiles. When will women wake to a realization of the same truth ?

How many of the trusting, dependent, belpless women must be sacrificed? Thank God; the number grows daily less as the dawn approaches. Another lesf is turned. Pocp into that quiet study at the parsonage, its oocupent sits musifigly in slippers and gown. intent upon a future pian.

His Sunday sermon is written, corrected and 1aid upon the shelf for 10 o'clock wppontment two days ahend of time. A besutiful form hat just closed the gate; his eyes watch the retreat ing footsteps, from the open door, he soes her cross the treet and disappesr around the square. 1t was Evelone Gooduer, she was just home from school. Had come out of her way to leave a note from a poor woman requesting the "good ministero come and pray with her busband, who was very ill and she feared be woul 1 die in his sins." Yes, he would go immedistely and on his way back would csll at sister Goodner's. He mused thus, "all women bave their weak pomts consequonly Mrs. G— bad hers, what was it ?It must be her pride in her children. That was the vulnerable point."

Mothers lowe to hear their children proised. their good qualities moticed, which often mothers know they possess. The same eveming the door bell rang, and Mr. Dernam entered be bad often called, but this ume be bad made it a pecualty. After a fow casusl remarks. one of which was the great sttachment the people. both in and out of the church, cherished for their former pastor; “Yeos," rephed Mra. Goodner. "we all loved him ; a crown boset with jeweln of good deeds must be his blossed inberitance. "Such a one the faithful may all bope some day to wear," replied the pious brother

Our hves alone will decide that; ench must bear the sears win has wronght wpon the inner Jife ; its fairnews will retan the marring, the wounds may hesl, but the prints be 1on." Hor soul spoke in these few words aud showed the deop et primeiple by which ber e we shaped. Yes, but do you mot forget the atonement You know it the only sure foundation upon which to rest our fith;" ewident!y messurin

The sinti the length of rope which tethered him to bis final salvstion. Breaking the pause which followed he said: “Yonr dsugbter is to be baptized two weeks from Sebbsth?" “If she prefers to be," replied the mother, thoughtfully, I consider ber young. snd feel thet two miuch outside influence has already been brought to bear upon bes during this protracted revival.”

This was unerpected Should he censure ber for s lack of fauth, and warn bep to fie moe closely to the fountsm? or would it not be bet ter to bold up the dsughter's mature judgment in choosing for herself, if such s thing were possible. amid the undue religions excitement of the last month?

Sister Goodner, I teel that Evelens ialres dy s chosen one of God's saving grace—s lamb of Christ's flock ; so pure, so gentie, so intelgent. s0 everything we are apt to love. She is a ressure to you, and will be an instrument of sswing many others sbe now exerts a grest influenoe over all ber mates. I have felt for a long time that the unusual success of the Sabbath Scbool was owing mech to her earnestuess and power in drawing ber csmates mto st. Think not that she is too young. Shall not babes be made to show forth the wisdom of God?" Thus he exto led her good qualites, and furtively watched the effect upon his quiet listener. It was not rs effectual as he had flsttered himself it would be. With s short prayer he bade her "good-night."

Not long after this csll, meeting Evelens upon the walk at an early hour, with a small basket in one havud and twirling her hat in the other, he accosted ber thus: Which way, so early, my lamb?"O, to the wild rose bushes way down by the creek yonder. I want some for my teacher ; she is so kind snd loves flowers desrly. She says the wild roses snd blue violets growimg smong the swoet grasses are God's own plant ing. “I am gomg that way for a walk we will go together. Let me carry your basket, my dea." “No, sir; ma teaches me to wait on myself." O, you are too independent. “Am I7 1 never thought of that ; you will forgive me?"

"Yes. You know that I am your spiritual friend, Evelene. Did vou not love Father Mosier?” O. yes." and her tones saddened as she thought of that good man, "he was s real fiber to everybody. Can you not love me just as woll, dew Evelene Bor eyes opened wide wonderingly she looked upon him. “Love him just as well. Love him aswell as she did Father Mosier, with bis silver beir, and whose very smile was a bepe diction ?

He bad gone wo far, be must retroat. O. no, you do not understand me. 1 k you to love me s your pastor—one who bas led you to Christ through baptism, whe prays for you overy day, who takes pride in your goodme. and who fecls that you are to be s shing ight in the world. I hope to be," was her modest reply He conuinundI never bad so fir lam my fiook betore 1 must take good eare of you, those curis and bright eyes are worth my wetoh ing. St down on this mound whils 1 gather thone agh ones tor you." No, thenh you. I wl climb the fonee and et them mywel my tonober will love them better, il 3.piok them all.

Onoe.s week, just as long a they last. Well, I oftn come this wey t ke morning wak, and 1 will Be oompny or yon. After srranging them micely., she took the short route, scrors the aeid, bomeward He watches er to him she was He poi quite unlike sny be hbad known before— abe oared so little for s fistier. h was music. iu the ears of young girls especialy. He would ssunter this way in has morning strolls no opportunity sbould pass unimproed. And so he d:d. The unsusproung gir was often queried. "Do you love me now?"

Her unsined apswer, She 654 mot know" Msny times on her way to school would be ower take ber and pever far' to pour twte her youns cars words of praise mimgied with his relio counsels. Two years and a-balf bad passed simoe bis avent smong abem. Some reports bad been spread abroad by busy tongues that his goos name was not as spotiess as it should be. Yet the cloak be wore was s brosd one and covered a multtnde of sins. Not iike the sesmiess garment of the loving Master whom be professed to follow, but full of unseem rents through which the sugels could look upon the foulness beneatn and weep.

Evelene had bloomed mto womanhood, tender and lowimg. One yens bad been spent at s neighboring college, and now, after s wacation of two months, she was to return. The Pastor made bis appesranoe, be was plessed to ee bot. she had grown so tall in ome yest; could be onll ber his “pet" any more? Sbe trested ham with gentlemess and s true covility The girlish indifference had rounded into a noble besrmg she was indeed besutitol, and ber besrt bespoke that inward besuty which excels all other; the trusting chiidlikenens had charmingly given pisce to s graceful sell-erust developed from within

After an hour past in convers ion M. De mam rose to depart. savimg thet be was poing away to remain a fortmight or more, but he hoped. on his return. to woe ber and be would ke to engigelong .1before bend He telt deeply mrerestod in ber soul's grown she feared she might morlect is woltre. The door clowed ter im he folt rolievd His very presemce orented a ane hdowing torth of hidden evil, unonmle, eo deply veiled. The pext morning witnessed the Pastor's departure on, the first train. nd pow the plot domon like in ms planning' He wes well convinoed that fisttery was of mo aval He oould not win her an inch on that boeEvslone was to bigh-omed. too omi. od that

Whst thenHe wonld folio onr pi ondaer the frendship be would betray the immooest He would fabrioate fonl n e, o p per and send it to ber On hs retr e wo e r and ympathier in r Tw p e thunderbot. Would she confide thi to he mother No. she wonid mot a het $o ar the er p She would look win he wn ho Sha we gve the i? Extrects will wofioe 1 ve ot

--- page 5 ---
My Pet Lamb, the one I thougnt all purity and wirre that, la, to, n to the doote tr r now in the downward path How coud I beheve it yet it wes confed to me wy those who kmow, and who hoped that 1 might be the one to lesd you back to Ohnist. Onty a few are cognizant of these crushing facts. 1 will bush it up, and promise close secrecy till I ase you. And then, what then? time would develop the sequel. The fiendish letter dropped from her grasp! What could it mean? What dod it mesn? Had she read aright? Another glance at the signsture; there was no mistake.

She shuddered as only innocence of soul and purpose can, at such crue l socusations. Unconscious of a single enemy, soarce dreamig of a seoret one ; from whenoe came this, and to whom should she fiee for help? The first impuise prompted her to the bosom which had first pillowed her head, but ere she resched the door the purpose failed her, for those poisoned words would stimg like an adder, and why should they pierce two souls ? She had no misgivinge that her mother's faith was mot implicit in ber, but she would spare the pain just now. She would wait the Pastor's return. A week passed by, fraught with doubts, mental suffer ing and solf-questionings. The close of the next brought Mr. Dernam, with a sesred con. sc.ence, of which his heart took mo note. Where was that spark of good we beheve innate in every human soul ? Burned to cinders by the ungoverned fires of a demon passion.

Anxiously Evelene looked for his sppearance at her mother's house he came—it was eventide, just as the sun had diappeared beneath the western slope. Mrs. Goodner had gone to keep the might watches at the bed-side of an iuvs'id. Alone and in deep thought sat Evelene as Mr. Dornam entered. Scarlet mantled her cheek as she bid him welcome. She felt, for the first time, that her power of sofpossesmon refused to assert itself. She burst into a flood of tears—lest he might mstoke them for penitential ones, she rallied, seating herself on the sofa, waited for the disclosure. Seating himself beside her, and gently drawing her band withim lis own soothingly, be said Don't weep: don't be excited, my dear It the same as has befallen many before yon."

I am innocent; I know nothing sbout it, sobbed shs.

Soarcely noticing her words he rehearsed what be had whtton adding much more, such as would suit his purpose. Said that it lay within his power, whether she be gwuilty or mot, to save or ruin her forever. It hor good name was gone, it mattered htte to the world whether her virtue remsined or not. He declared after all this that he loved her loved her an he had never loved another. his beart was at her fert; could she mot love him half as muoh" 1t would bring heaven down to earth it she would. il could never be happy without her love, or a pat of it, at least. Be bad long wantsd an opportunity to express the adorabon he fell for her. God wonld bless such devotion as his. He hoped some day that she might become hias wedded wire, but thll then wou ' she not be bis seoret love With all hin lowe, with ber good mame in bis power, how coul" she refuse him. her true irond? No, she wouid not be so ungratefal Hor heart was too generous. It was onty s small favor on her part; it she would promise bim this mow, be would sae ber from the e t was just ready to drop upon her. If mot, the

C blow must fsll, and when onoe fallen was writ ten sgainst your name, it will gather rubbish on every mde. She started up, she would fain fie from the room, and the presence which seemed like death to ber. He grasped her armWould she not yield to his wishes. She must; ber all depended upon ber decision this very hour? Her scruples had atready been overcome, be was sssured of that

Frightened by his strange looks and words, and the strength by which he held her, sbe stood trembling and wresolute, thinking wherein lay safety. Then looking straight into his excited face said. "Never nver Lesve this house instantly. you demon" The fiash of her eyes deepened the mesning of her words. There wes a power in that looh and tone which cowed the lustful decerver. Muttering snd ohop fallen be left the bouse— the gate clicked behmd him. Sne histened till his steps died away, and then breathed out her thanks for this deliverance.

The carly and late watches of the night passed in sleepless hours to Evelons. She longed for her mother's return. Just as the darknes began to fade away, she came. Soeing the light gioaming trom Evelene's window, she bastened to her room. Evglene threw herself into her arms, and after the first wild burst of pent-up beart-aches was over she told her all Her mother listened in wonder, in pain and indimation. It was a plot of his own begetting. Thou art saved my child! saved!"

Dear reader, to-day my friend. Evelene. is the loved and loving wife of Prof. L. of the University, at which, two yesrs later, she gradusted with bonor. And her heart is the bome of the unfortunsto, for has she not been tempted by the charmer ; charming never so wisely?

WOMAN SUFFRAGE IN COLORADO—1mE SPLRIT MOVING. ———— T MARY L. OLOvOR ALTRoUon the bill for the enfranchisement of women was fost in this borritory, after baving the approbation of the Governor and passing the Council ; it is, notwitstandins, very gvident that much good was sccomplisbed by agitating the question.

On coming to this country, mot quite a year ago, 1 was disagreeably impressed by the gener.1 depreciation of the abilities and powers of women, when exercised outside their omentie pheres. Indond I found mysel in oon- Ginual state of antagonsm with somebody or something and always brstling in a sust of armor, waging defenmve and offensive warfare everywhere.

Masculine eyes would open pretty wide to see what aWoman's Right's woman"was really hke but 1 wa ore aonr y the mild horror or contemptuous smeers of the foir se when Woman's Rights were mentsoned than by the outspoken condempation or meule of their lords" For in the first oase thore wes groat discouragement and bumilation in ssking for women what they disdnined for themselves. Bosidon i was weapon that our paturs ne mywielded tmphanly,We ar wiling inave it to the women. 11the majority ssh it, lot thom have the bali But hos many denire

0

Now all fhis is changed ; by contined ag tion, by disousion in the legiinture and debates outside, from the practionl iustrton of the mixnsd yuries of oor meighbor, Wyoming. from being brought as subjent of convermtion very freide i. have oome to 1ook more calmly and rationally pon the movement It is no longer o mh s horror and ridioule as mstter for earnet thought and enlightenment. And when poople begin to wiew a matter impartialy ant to talk of it sensibly there is hope of their coming all right st isst. Therefore. I sonmo all the time and sioquenoe cxpended by the igisiature and all the efforts of aotrve isborers for the right, as a decided gain to the osuse of woman. I am more than ever persnaded that the Woman Suffrage movement is to be siowly but surely sdvanoed by being kept before the people. Acoustomimg them to look st it in all its phaes, to Cost 1ts ony by ctunl peri when they may, and by mekmg t s meatter of educstion; thus it beoomes a sure and suooees. ful revelution metured by the advanoement and peeds of a people. The very fact of so many women contending agsinst teir own elevation proves thia. I bave known many such. sfter investags ing the subject and foroing themselves to comsider it without prejudioe, to bowostly confess they had been wrong smd to earpent ly set abo at putting themselves right. The ton ble . most women will not think. They bave been trained to imb-cility, and whet they pow need is the knowiedge of their own powers antd duns, and their relstionnd obliget om to ciety and the world.

COURT FOOLs. 1 Lo . U

Taz Court wee in turmost! The King. the Queen, the Lord high Fiddetick, the wery Bisbops, in their gowns and lswn sieeven, and were all down on thetr knees, werohng for it. And yet one oould barly bisme the i) Who would not bave thrown it into the fire? The wisest man in the kingdom was just aens. He bad lived s oentiry snd s ball; and be bequethed the ing the e. wt yo m call the sam tots of his resesrcbee—written on sorp of ppet, psibly fve mobee long Fancy! The king bad expeoted nine wolumes st lenst and throwing t in vage on the oola. the arsft bad drewn it up the chimney before it hed time to bura.

Bot po oome w i o y began to wonde whet the wisest men oonld have ssid. The more be thought of t. the more oumous be grew. So, 1 y. the whote eomrt was in commotion, and there might hawe beon soen the apectncie of indies in welwet tin. ages tn pow red wigs o wain, for the beost c1 all rennons The Court-o0 had' found it. and ressoned. hike wisor man on the pulpees 1t be worth e mueh t owed whst is it ot wor to por he put in i po the preiduct of wise mens Lfe e goe t fool's pocket.

single wentony t what you desire be, and the we heve you.The foo rend i. nd pon Whet is 5. e m sire bo be?a prinon. of eourse, and y

--- page 6 ---
the prinoessIf Isay thet I am one, the world will befieve me, or else, what is the e of being the wisest man? If Isil, I shall only be whst 1 am siready—s fool! therefore, I am s primoe and I will go mary the princess. o Novw, this princess of whom the fool had spoken was, as all princesses must be, the most besutiful and hard-hearted young womsn of the pemod. The gates of ber palsce were mobbed by suitors, and as many as five or stx hung themselves in despair, each day, because the primoen was detormined to marry no one but her wuperior. When the fool heard that, he pondered a gain. ““The princess is a wise woman, and I am s fool. She is dotermmed to find her superior. Very good, I will be her superior!"

Aoocordingly, when desired to wait upon the princess, in her ball of sudience, he seated bimsolf instend, saying baugbtily I am not certain yet that 1 desire to see the princess at all. The womsn whom I marry must be besutful, wise, bumble, modest, witty, truthful, amsble, graceful, and madly in love with me." Then he crossed his legs and losked up at the ociling with such an air of indifference that the princess sent to demand who he was, concinding that he must be some grest person who dared to be so uncivil, and required se many virtues and acoomplishments. "“Tell ber," rephed thefool, "that it is of no consequence what I am or bave been. A grest many things are permitted a man that would be intolerable in a woman."

When the princess hesrd that, she was at once convinced that she had found her superior, and they were merried forthwith.

The Court-fool was now the busband of princess, and recived suoh honors as are paid to kings; yet he was not altogether on roses. The priucess was sharp-witted, and be was constantly in danger of being found out, had it not been for the wisest man's receipe. When he uttered some folly, and the princess exclaimed, "“my dear1" he returned loftily, "if you bad been wiser, you would have understood me better. 1If sbe was inclined to medadle in state affairs, "which is the wiser," be asked ironioally, “you or 17" And as there was always danger lest sbe should see and bear too constantly informed her that if she wished to preserve bis admirstion, she must know as little as possible about out of door mat tor, and keep herself in a sort of seclusion, so that he could wlways think of ber as something 150f and part from every-day people and the rebble."

So pumber of years passed happily for the foot, but mot so bappily for the primoess. who bardly dared darsw a full breath. lest she should do it, like a common person, and so lose some of that admirstion so bardly kept and so casily ost; amd at inst, whe said to her busband I am hesrtily tired of the monotony and soolumon of my hfe. As well be a pictare on the walls at onoe, If you are a prince, 1 ama prinoss. 1see no rearon why 1 sbould not know something of what is gomn on outse. nd when you mgn the state papors. why should mot sot my name there also. They concorn me, as well as you. The fool was troubled at onoe. You ough not, beonse it is mot proper. be wid. 1 pever meddle with your ourl papers. Loave my acts and statutes abne."

“But why is it not properusged the pri

Shz Bsnsintian.

Why, because no prinosss ewer Goss such things “Time, then, that one commenoed. The fool was frightened, and relapsed imto his folly. “Then," sid be, sas soon a you have omoe set your mame to a state paper, you will rule stead of me. You will take my crown snd robes, adminster justice, and make laws, and1 shall be only Court-fool set to rock the orsdle, to sew on buttons, to make paste, to stich wp soams." when the princess beard the, she was much perplened, and bappening to meet ber nurse. she 4d her what her busband bad just boen saying. The nurse burst into a violent fit of laughter. The princess drew berself up.

“My dear," said the murse, pray do not be ofended. But does your Roysl Highnmess conmder your busband supenior to yourself? Cousider I know that be is;" cried the princess. “Certainly! Of course ! but bow did your the fact? Why. he to1d me so," answered the prinoess. hesitatingly and surprised.

“Enactly! and be tolls you now, that if you set your name to certain papers, thet be will beoome Court-foolThen, depend upon it, my dear, that be knows himself to be that alvesdy and thet any men who deciares that B will lose his manliness, resign his privileges, echange duties, to sueak sbout in kitchens and nurseries, and turn fool, if hs wife signs peper, or bas an opinion on state affairs, is a fool already ; only be bas not yet been found out." NASCULINE INSOLENCE."

NASCULINE INSOLENCE Unpun this beading the Cincinnst Gastte sministers wholesome rebuke to those journals that, with taunt snd acoff and sneer, sttempt to cover with ridicule and obloguy the brave Wyoming women who have recently sat on jury, a follows:

Now, in the name of the imaliensble right of every born person to the pursult of bappiness, we have to sAre pot these women competent to decide for themeelvee wheter their housebolo. thet che or ttr are of more port r p lic Gutien And heving thie best mesns for Geciing ts ouestion, have they mot the right to decide Whe has the rigt to pick out the fmie ry lenge them with the quetion wheer they are ot pe cin ooi0 o e u W challengee a male juror and demands whether be lon ty pro, or it, through bie Getention in Oourt, the cupbore wi e re. w , in thew trowsers

This is simply the crech of the famili wh of mn sbeoiute Gomination over women I meene pothing short of thetr compiete sueon. Kot to e rig is to. sbandon them. There are imconvenione oe i 1 po t ther whould be abanaomes woul mu prowo the convenienee of man be would let hie polten T e por p bu be would soon nd thet he had ne rights len

A up fm T wrons i womn. t m or the ae w wir on e l repo Vot meny mon torege marige eomes and re, a o s p Nobody Cm o. mn i he ly ol o i iy p aiction of congs jore, wt e ve W There is some hing more funament i

p T t. . Amerio r o t e onty o o p 1or t prowemy. Then they mey comset i bos w potstion rights are Dount tog. t one is to senon Tris by ury p pr To be poer on y i pr of equal rig. To semon te t mn subjertion to men.

Por women to megiet ry clusive priviens to sapr women, n to han h right to be tred by s jury of theswr peers Bow om men jesuty judee s womss They sennot beve et ow p p tion whih roguiite tempes oms They osnnot comprenend the varn. moods an mot om, mo t powe Ttis monstrons muntio t sor women y am rie mo. A i an tener mp w wom exposed. erring wiste. Fourthermore, many of e crimes of men are aginst women. Bov o men arecite the mpursThet wh i , ty the expmive Amns Dicimon . ow osts How can jutioe be enpectnd from hoe i mty o pr pr womenFor the somiitrion of ti w who are oo. o emale jrors and odgee ar in ap

forrign Correspondencr.

TT . MANoTE. MArh, 1870 EDIUGE LRADS TRE wA

EoTU A T At a mesting of the wown Counel of Bamburgh, beld last week. the Lord Provost presiding, the Couneil resolved to petition Parbement in favor of the bill to remove the ais ties of women. It is mot improbsble thet we Mayors and Councile of other cties will follow this example. Now that women posses the municipal suffirage. the corporstions will mot be unmindful of the mghts of thew constit oen ME. TAWORTT' LOT T

. Mrs. Fawcett the wie of Prot Fawort, M. for Braghton, aewered locture on Wmey lest in the Town Hall of thet oty. onThe Electors! Disbilies of Women Mrs Fov cott enumersted snd rapled m deta to the arguments ususlly savanond agnint ing the franchine to women She contenaed thet the cluims of women rosted on the wame basis as those of mer—he mghts e e must stand or fall together

At the lnst gront mesting of the Lonson No. tional Somety for Women's Suffrge. bead o July 17. 7969, M. F plodging the Sooit t e y o men. and proposing the inrooon o this session.The Manchonter Commite Bristol, and Cartie o Ma. 3 rg C forwars the i wow beto P rore pe ot g

1 have plr mectmg is being heid bony Lomao por of Ameiey. dot Wom onne re p

--- page 7 ---
A VALUABLE ALA.

An important witness to the truth of the theory and practice of Equal Rights bas arisen. He advoostes the suffrage for women not merely on the ground of removing dissbilities which are inconsistent with the principles of representative government, but as hikely to afford a positive strength to the moral tife" of the country which admits women into its councils as a portion of the body politic. This new confessor is the Rev. Frederick Denison Maurice. Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Cagbridge, who is well known as perhaps the most profound and earnest of living theologians. He is one of the leaders of the Broad Church party—s party that unites s reverence for all that is sacred im the past with a respect for mew revelations from the discoveries of science. “It tesches," says an sable expounder of the phases of faith, “that the Divine Love is the great principle of the divime government, snd will be triumphant bereafter over sin and evil—that the shyss of love is decper than the abyss of desth. It teaches that buman souls—even the poorest, narrowest souls—are all of infinite value, loved by God and to be valued by men. It tesches s morality not appealing to hope of reward, or fear of punishment, but founded on pure love of God and goodness, and it nobly rebukes the ofher world inessvhich transtorms virtue into interest. In no party of christiars does religion assume a healthier type ; in mone has morslity tended to produce so noble a philanthropy. The Broad Church lbors to elevate men as men, improfing their samitary and social conditions. eduoating them to think for themselves, even on the highest topics, and so leading them up to religion. Spiritual, large-hearted, with purest othics and devoted hves, the Broad Church party olaims our highest respect. I have given you this little definition of the party of which Mr. M.urice 1s one of the distinguished leaders, in order that your readers may fully estmats the value of his testimony.

THE REV. 7. D. MAURIOE ON FEMALE SUFFRAGE. From the Spectator of March 5, 1870 St The question of Feomale Suffrage will shortly come betore Pariisment. The advocstes of it assert the right of women to share in the government of a coun try of which they conmstitute so large s portion. Teopponents of it maintain that the imfuence which wo en exercise in England is and sbould be domestic, not postical.

1 leave the first argument untourhed on the second 1 would wish to say s few words. Can any one pretend that the mfleomce of women over politios—over elee. tionser.ng politics, especially—is not very conmaersble nmow Suppose it is only domestic ifiuence that con tinually determines what csndidstes shall offer them selves, not untrequently wha candidste shall be slected. But notoriously, this purely domestic power is exerted, dsngerously exerted, on tonants, on shophepers. on all classes that form our constituencies. According to the maxims that are gepersity acoepted by thoughtinl men. is it not well thet tuis strictly politicall power whould be beld unders sepse o repon ality, with the scknowiedgment of it s a rust, not wislded orelensly to gratify some sentiment, to sustsin some porsonal favor. ite?Those who demand the soffrage for women are not vesily asking for them s power which they de mot poe eoy sre kin iy t power whi they do poseens may be ued eriousts with aer t ovo, wit ar of r t private partisiit se

y withholding the wffage from women on the ground tiat they ousht mot o be pottiin, we maks them, it seems to me, positicians of the worst kind We jostty al fominine. plo or aong pon mere rt faney in the weteton of twe corge th abuses to which those pless lesd. On the othe band, 17 the Lagiiature ranty amits wome to the rie o urage, wi. eleve, y tone of the whole land, by raising the tone of thowe

ertnti o. , are, rul, far more concienion ha en. Whe in sny sphere they are less comsnintions an bein to make men less conscientions. it is a ressonsie conjeeturs tht t this pere omting bes te om e the somse of responoibiisty. Mere logisiation is mot aie toefct mini tt. ut igi o upon s morsl theory and working slong with it may fo even greater mischi f.

1 would contond as carmestly as any ome for the 6omestic auties of s woman1 guestion whether you oe not crippie her in the porformance of these Gutis, and lower her comptio of ter r, w o t ber not to regerd bersolt as s oitizen. The mpotity of the bome is the safegard of the maion yo eor a separation between the bome and the pation, you afrm that one-balt of the mation is to be shwt up in home and exomoes rom y parncipstion m ige ttoresta, take oore that the ormaments of the home do pot become mere orpaments piotures to be gazed st and worshipped, not 1ving 1 owers to purify and ballow1 should like to see our Legisiature proving by thew aote that this is not thetr conoeption of s woman's function in the world; all the oomp iments which they pay ber are very hollow and contemptibles, if it is.

80 long as magority of the male inbsbitants of Grest Britain were not reckoned in fhe constituency, it might bave beon a uselens weste of time to recommend that women sbould be represented. When boussbolders are admitten to the franchiss, thetr excinsion most str any one as anomalons. 1 do pot, bowever, ak to7 thewr admission as the removal of s constitutionsl anomaly, of which we tolerate so many, but sss positive strength to the moral life of Egiana. The Pints bave thrown ont on this uct ave e epan ed wit a more for in the writings wherein women bave piesdod thew own cause. Bat it may mot be wholly ussles for an outioer of the other sex to own bow their arguments beve im" pressed him, and to state on whst grounds ne coniders thet man of oli parties and all prosessions mas oo 7. D. MavmcH Oambriage, March 1 PAMPHELETS ON WOMEN'S SUFFRAGE

1 send you four new publicstions which desl specially with this question. The first. called Women and Politics, by the Rev. Oanon Kingsley, I have mentioned in s former letter. It has been reprimted from Maomillan's magazine. The second, enttled Women's uffrage, 1 the proceedings of the public meeung beld in Edinburgh in January. It gives the specches in entenso, with the mames of the subsoribers and executive commitiee of the Edimburgh Society. Third, A Lecture on Women's Suffrage. by Prof. F. W. Newmsn, is the foll report of the address dolivered in Bath and Bristol about two months ago, of which 1 gave you a brief account in my letter of that date. It is most walusble in showing the present and prospeetive issues of the religions besrings, and its wital mportanoe to the well being of our, country and of human progress in the highest sense

The fourth pampbliet 1 send puts the queson he Eercie of e Thi is sbly anewered by the writer, Mrs. Wilham Grey. who then recounts five ressons why women should bave o share in the government. whih may be th summed up 1.Because woman is physicslly weaker than man. and needs this counterpoise to ensure u tice. 3'Becanse woman bas quicker pereepio and more grace and bouty n a e sis nooded o a refining and elevsting infinenoe in the mational ife . Women is tonder hearted end pitiful and her yp are meeded in pobtion Womsn hes a strong semse of duty. wnd greater imfusion of morsl reponsility will be presonted by her presenoe in polsties life.

. Womsn is religions by maturs, and she will bring this clement inte the manenal councile

rs Grey oonein w w ountion—Let snother reform potiosl power to women. and men will st leng iol ompeed t t t t playthings, or userul Grudgen. but as the possesors of power which soety must, at i peri, tench tem o e or n e wonE A A Miss Garrett bas been admittod as member of the medical staff of the Eest London Hospital for chiloren. and was appointed one of the physicisns isst Wednesday. This the first hospital in Grest B.itain which bas reoognied in this manner the femsie medioal movement.

The agitation against the Comtagions Discasee Acts, which have deseribed in former letters, and which now extends to every large commomity and aimost every oemur of mteigene the kingdom, bes given rise to much discunsion upon the mediosl profession, and hes orested ort of ori in The neoesity for opening the profesmon to women bis beome more ohvious, and finds many fresh advoostes. You are, mo Goubt, sware that st present women ars exciuded by srbitrary rules from medionl exammations and degrees. A petition to Parlisment is being prepared praving thet these wmjust restrictions may be removed, and thet m an future legisistion Parhament will mnedon pe measure for the regulstion of medioal degrene which 65es mot provide for ther being grante not s matter of favor, but of right to all ndidstes alike who give evidence of the mesotu proficiency in me josl study; such degre being no longer contingent on sny condtions with which t is imtentionally made im-

Yours, very truly. REsmoos Moom

A BRAVE WESTERN WOMAN

In private letter to Miss Anthony. Mr. Governor MoCook, of Colorado (at present in Washimgton), thus nobly and bravely expreasee her sentiments Both Gon. MoCOook and mywelt would lis t be t your New York snmiverty, but we mow foar it will not be powsible. 1 wish to be oondered ooply itrd in ti reorf woman, and am pledged to ao everything powible to forward it. I bope by the nmext mest ing of the legisisture of Colorde thetwe shall be sble to ps the whioh failed by only three votes this time

My experionce m this matter hes been fol iowsNearly all the working women 1 hewe met the soboo and mus toer. op men and seamstrenses are in fvor of eouferand 1 ppot own se. Women oppons to the w men B is bad enough to fight the men whoare opposed. t w t int w the wo ow beey degradme. i r Poople are p As iwer t poiie nd yet be all e Whon teach them differenly

o

--- page 8 ---
232

he Hrnslntinn.

PUBLISHED WEEKLY, $3 A YEAR. NEW YORE CITY SUBSCHIPTIONS, $3.20. ELIZABETH CADY STANTON, Eaitor. PAULINA WRIGHT DAVIS, Cor. Eaitor. SUSAN B. ANTHONY, Proprictor. OFFIOR, 49 EAST TWENTY-THIRD ST., N. Y NEW YORK. APRIL 14, 1870. ADITORIAE CORRESPONDENCE. MINNEAPOLIS, March, 1870.

DaAn REvVOoLUTION Two weeks in Minnesota, with its clear, bracing air, brigbt sunshine, grand bluffs, rich valleys, rolling prsiries. majestic Missssippi, romantic falls of Minnebahs and St. Anthony, and its n ble men and women What a state this is destined to be, with double the acres New York oan boast, and the largest water. power in the world! Beside being a great manufacturing and agrioultural country, it possesses inexhaustible resources in its won, copper, siste, granite, clay, limestone, salt springs, lumber, sand, and fish. Its climate is singularly favorable not only for the health of the people, but for the cultivation of fruits, flowers, rice, sweet potatoes, and, I am sorry to sdd, tobacoo, for at is a pity to desecrate one acre with that vile weed. Gov. Austin might better bave forbidden its growth than Woman's Suffrage, for the real interests of the state would be promoted by securing to woman ber rights of ciuzenship, and thus encournging the immigration of wealth, brains and beauty.

St. Paul and Minneapolis are proud rivals of one another. The former can bosst the best society, the most sprightly editors, the finest residences, the most busimess, and the boldest soemery ; the latter the best notel, wide, regular streets, and an extensive park. It must be a beautiful city in the no distant future. If1 were to choose a renidence in cither, to-day, it would be Minneapolis, beosuse its streets are at right angles. St. Paul, like Boston, goes zigzagging every way. 1 would not risk my future spiritusl ssfety by living there, for if the road to heaven is straight, 1t 1s s bad preparstion to go crooking sbout through atll one's esrthly pilgrimage.

I had a splendid audience of ladies in St. Paul to hear my lecture on "Marriage snd Materuity." That subject seems to touch deeper chord in the femmine sor than Suffge as few porcerve how much the social status is affected by political equaslity.

At St. Anthony, bad a bttle passage at arms with Prof. Campboll of the 8 ste University As he bad been making some speeches against Woman's Suffrage, 1 was inter stod to bear some of his objections. The specisl point be made at the olose of my lecture was, that man aiways had been, and would be. the natursl protsctorof woman. He proved tis to his own satisfction by the age of chiiry. by the fire and geal with which men in. al ages bad pursusd the women they loved. He pointed to Helon, Aspesia, Cleopatrs, eto.. sif any one doubted that man, in the fire of his youth, or passion, would pot even blow his brains out for some individual woman; but

hs Rerenti ho t e mig protectors for the congiomerste masss of womankind who bave neither grace, besuty. wealth, nor position

Feeling 100 tired to put on my seven-leagued boots and bound back over oceans and continents to consider the beroes and heroines of Troy. Greooe and Rome, I cilled the Professor to the women of Minnesota, teaching for $500 year in the public schools, with no Leander swimming the Missismppi to rescue them from their lives of monotonou poverty, Summoned to bis mative land, the Professor was fired asnew with enthusiasm over our late war, and in the exuberance of his chivairy be said it was fought out orthe depths of man's love for woman for our firesides and our bomes. This was new ides. I had alwsys thought the late war was fought for the megro, as his elevation was the grand result. He was emancipsted and enfranchised, and made the judge, juror and lewgiver for all womankind: but pray what pew honor, right, or privilege did woman secure from the first gun st Sumter to the final capture of Jof. Davis in pettiooats We pause for a reply. The Fiteenth Amendment, the great moral measure on which the republiosn party specially plumes itself, is the establishment of an aristocracy of sex, reducing woman to the condition of a serf, practicslly placing the wives, mothers and daughtn of this repu he under a Foreign yoke. So much for the chivalry of the nineteenth century.

Gomg to St. Cloud, where the last bridge spans the Missussippi in the north, even there 1 found the women im rebellion. As Senstor Waite, who was woman's champion in the last legisiature, resides there, he may fairly be held responsible for the social revolution mow inaugurated in that flourishing town. The Senstor's highly imtellectusl wife stands like a pillsr of strength and besuty by bis side. I had the honor of being introduced to the audience by the Senator. At the close of my lecture quite sparty adjourned to the plessant pariors of Mrs. West, where, in the midst of oysters, icecreams and ooffee, a Suftrage Associntion was formed, with quite a brilliant array of names of the leading ladies and gentlemen of St. Cloud,

There I met Mrs. Swissbelm's sister, nepbew and niece, the lstter bright sud sparkling a new wine. When some of the gettlemen sppointed to draft a constitution spoke of the trouble of such a proceedimg. e isughingly said, “I'll lend you Combe's Consttution of Man' for a model."

Time fails me to tell you of all the plessant friends 1 met at Hastings, how near I came in orong the ioe there to ding my lst ret place in the arms of the Father of Waters; of that ride in cutter thurty-ix miles to Stillwater, and baok from St. Paul, through arire. pitob-holes, deep water, siush. oe. mud, or. on, on, four weary bours, with an sudience waiting unt mear mine o'clook. Verily. Lyceum lecturing is not all sunshine. With s piessant visit under the bospitable roof of Mr Wheston, formely of S lecture in the Rev. Edwin Williams's ocburob in North field, 1 onded my engagements in Minposota. and lest her balmy sir, clear skies, and pumberlew copies of Tas REvoron beind ma. and whizsed off to lowa a c. a

MoGono ow Dass REvoo Hee w t p night, but we had s smesh up, and reached the own at eleven instend of seven. A lerge s-

dienoe disappointed, however. I amto lecte this afrrnoon. It is easily on that the ve question to-y is Woman's Suffrage. Packed houses everywhere show the deep interest the peopie fee in it. On the way to the Methomt cr were was to speak, the gentiemn who was to intro- Ouo me id there were mo iromg mimd wo men in McGregor. So1 opened my spesch by stating the fact and deploring the and condiion of that community but several voios shou out. “Thet not r, there g plenty o them." So st the ciose, 1 too8 the vote, and the wihole sudionce went sold for Woman s Suffrage

I bave i pew way of puttng the wote “Let afl those who are in fvor keep thotr sent n those opposed rise.” 1In this way one get the most favorsbie response, beosuse women. hke imanimsate objecta, gemerally noed some externsl foros to put them in mouon. sud the ma of them would not rise up to save the mstion.

peroeive, the odum and fstagne of opposition is far less in amy sudenoe than one might sntcipste. Some osrping persons bave crincined this way of putting the vots, but see no resson why we should vote just s men things quite differently. 1f you osll for the ayes a few deep-voioed men could drown out hundreds of women. Seeing, then, thet women will mot rise their vosoes mor stand wp. it is fa nd wise to tke their approvsl of everything by witmoe and the sittimg posture. McOregor is feartully and wonderfully but, i a doep valley with bold biu tht e the hesvens. How they smport any breers there in the summer, 1 de pot see. The soemery about is very fine. and the town of greet com mercisl importance. They have one of the most remarkable ominuses tt 1 hed oen in many a day. Very long snd very marrow, the sonts just mape inches wade, on which the men. women and cbularen sre lteraily percbed. As we joited siong sbout s mile lughed in my seeve sll the way, to wee how much hke unhappy fowis the mt h prim hmes. vis, oly w necessity of keeping our respoctive pleoes. The man thet but st must have made some ben-ooop his model

My troubles a9 mot end t MoGirego. fon oo Chien. the floamg ioe wept ne prisoners for hours in mgbt of the beartlons ongrime. with 1ts train, that fimstly wed of M out ua.

Obliged to wait $or amothor bost to fire up and come ont to our smte. w r ourselves to our fte, ad aiepon gentim them by peech. o nd there. M t for e ori which p of thes ormen. whe oe e w the state. shonid heve a wore in the pow ment. At the slone of my p . were trred p. w we h come to blows One acired women wr to wte he would loswe the couners. bim not to 4o wo rsh ma. gion ws pre in be would e o wan orer on the faee of the rt. and. e O

--- page 9 ---
have s mark set on him as fhe man that did not believe in Woman's Suffirage.

bave a mark set on bim as he man that did not believe in Women's Sufirge. Prairie ou Chien bossts one of the fimest hotels in the country, and the most jovisl, hospitsble landiord that the world ever produced. Tired, sleepy, at midnight, he was as genisl and happy as most men in the sunnieste conditions (ssieep or with a ciger after dinner).

He received us all like a loving fatber, and dispensed his blessimgs with an impartial hand. Suppers and beds for a whole tram. of unexpected guests was an emergency that none but a genius could have met, though be did it to the. satisfaction of sall conc erned. But oh! these western people, how besutifully they take all these delays and accidents! instesd of grumbling and swearing, as men 6o in the east, they make a frolic of everything. Being comfortably bestowed, listening to the merry voices, laughing and skipping through the balls, I philosopbized on the blessing of hardships how much more generous and self-sucrificing people are trained in this school, than in luxury and ease ; and yet we are all struggling to seoure for our children the very conditions in life that will enfeeble both mind and body, and pervert the whole moral being.

With one long strnde stepped into Ripon, Wisoonsin, a beautiful town with a plessant circle of the faithful. Under the hospitable roof of Dr. Stone, a distinguished homopathie physician, s delightful surprise was prepared for me. Entering my room, a tafl, fine-looking woman popped from bebmd the door and embraced me with a wm, covering my face with kinses and tears. “Mrs. Henry Crosby," rich farmer's wife, with her broad acres. fine cbildren, and delightful home, was a poor, lonely Irish girl, who had found her first bome with me twenty years ago. A noble, faithiul girl, worthy the prosperity she enjoys to-day. Ob how we did talk and laugh over old times, how having taught her to prepare musk-melons for the table, she did once take a splendid water melon from the ice and treat it in the same way, and the horror that seized paterfamitias, about to dispense to waiting guests a much vaunted melon, to find that nothing but the rind remained! Poor Martha! how she blusbed when she learned her mistake. Now she raises all kinds of melons, aud eats them too, and knows what to throw away. Marths and her daughter, sixteen, are both ready to vote.

After my lecture in Ripon, a lady ceme to the platform, as she said, to ask me one question that to her seemed bedged about with diffioulties : How could women with balf a dozen babies go to Congress " Ireplied, that I thought in most Congressional districts there might be found one woman without such sppendages. In overy community there are large numbers of old maids (generally the most intelligent class). widows, and womon past the age of forty-five who have crased bearing children. Few men came tnto public life bolore that age, and it would be better for the country if fewer still were pormitted to make laws for the mation untl yesrs and experience had given them wisdom. "But suppose, said snother, that we should send some far maideu, and sftor her election she should marry some distinguished gentieman in Washington and become a mother ?"She could resign. Georrit Smith wentto Congress and resigned after the first your. Marriage and maternity do mot exolude women today from all public hfe. So long as hundreds of women are olerks in all the dopartments at Washington, why could they not ss well be Congressmen? Women leave their

h Rersintin children to wash, teach sobool, sew, to spend winters at Washington, summers st Sarstogs. and yesrs in Europe. Multitndes of boys and guls, under the present dynmssty, are put in boarding schoois at ten years old. and yet the moment you mention the bsllot s general bue and cry is rmsed, Whast would become of the children ?

From Ripon to Chicago, where I bad promised mysell s rest over Sunday. but ndmg along reading s Chicago paper. my bopes of rest were suddenly dashod to the ground, for I found a reception announced at the elegant remdence of Fernando Jones, for Saturday evening, and s lecture for Sunday eveming, in Robert Collyer's chush. The triends of Woman's Suffrege arall wide awake there and about to form “Cook County Womsn Suffrage Asssocistion," a convention bemg called for that purpose. The leaders of our movemert n the state disapprove in toto of the action at Cleveland, and stull more of the sction at Springfield in a late convention, making the fimois State Society, by some manceuvering. auihary to Boston. Western people have a way of thinking for themselves, and mo men nor women need magine they “hold the west in the hollow of then hands.

From Chicago back agsin to Chuton, lows, where I was most plessantly entertamed at the Revere House. There I found everything nest and comfortable, nd the proprietor so much interested in Woman's Suffrage. that when I caled for my bill, be gallantly ssad that Clmton, as well as himself, were grestly id bted to me. Iows is splendidly alive on this question. as ber people, by a Luge vote in both Houses. are to vote on it in the comig election. Our eastern foroes must now hold themselves in readiness to do for lIowa what was done in Kansas, scatter tracts and make speeches m every school distret, and log cabm. From the tone of the pross and peorte, 1 should not wonder if Tows should be the banner state, and on her sofl arise the first genuine republic among the nauons of the earth.

Of Monteceltlo, Cedar Rapids and lows City. something in my pext. o

THE PEACE CONFERENCE.

Ir was held on Wednesday of last weok at Fifth Avenue Hotel in this city. Peacr Conference may not be a proper name, as it implies, or presupposes war wherens there is, there was no war on the part of the callers, and certainly, a appeared. none on the part of oneof the partios called. But in. responss to the inwitation, there were present Mr. Theodore Tilton, Mrs. Lucretis Mott and Mrs. Leurs C. Bullard, representing the signers of the invitstion (mumbering more than one thousnd), Mr. Lucy Stone, Col. T. W. Higginson and Mr. Goorge Wm. Curtss for the Amenosn Woman Sufirage Association. snd Mrs. Obariotte B. Wilbour, Mrs. Josephine S. Grifng and Ms. Parker Pillsbury on behalf of the National Womsn Suffage Associstion. Mrs. Stone and ber twe assoctes for the American Association wisbed to be considered as acmg without appoiatt having come s they smid. only as voluntoers,

Ax doubts bad been erpressed shout the attendanee of Mrs. Mot. on aout ot the on distance to be travelled. he age and fooble hesith, Mr. Francs D. Moulton had boon appointed as her substitute, whe oocupied ber place before she entered; and alse in the even-

ing. sfter whe bad retired from the oonierenes. The repreentae of the Amerioen Acistion, espocialy Col. Higginson, pertins. ciously insisted that there be no orgam tion of the conference. not so much as even the sppoitment of a chairmen. though emphasizing strong'y fhot fhey were not fhere ae doegates duly appointed wnde the Iaon. was suggestod, on the part of the Nasonsl Associstion, that as we were, in a but the mvited guests of Mr. Thton fosenda. and they sppesied to regard the apposntment of the cutomary chairman and secretary s eential to the better tctating of busimess, whether propriety and courtesy ad not require the we weive our obctions and pormu them our host to decide on the mapner of proceecg. Bot they seemed wholy disinclined to peld the pont and as the National aelegates hed ne particula pieferenoes ethber way, i was ooncinded to pass at onoe to the questions which had brought us togethe r

It was decided unsmimously with mo discns. sion, that reporters be not sdmitted.

The discussions, though long and earpest. were most kind snd frendly in apr. M. Tilton read briet extracts of a lerge pumber of letters, nt from pearly all parts of the coun try, many of them offcal, signed by offos of 1o0al Woman Suffruge Societen, strongly urgng that the proposed union of the twe nations organizstions be consummated. Much was said by Mis. Stone and her associntes shont the causes which led to the calling cf the Cleveland Convention, the nsture and manner of that call; its entirely Ofive Bramchcharacter who mgnei it, and why. and under what oucumstances what was thought and smd of t at the Providence Convention. by Theodore Tilton. Col. Higgimson and others the Convention at Cleveland and the Society which was orgmined there what it had done, is doing and proposes to do. which could not possibly be done (so it was confidently beld by Mrs. Stone) nder the Nationsl Associstion. which had been in vigorous operation severs! months. and bed beld very large and important conventions, be sides doing much other work, while the Cleveland Convention and its oall wers mot all these and other topios were conidered in sonvers tional manwer for tour bours snd more. ow Amerioan Society assoctes showing mo wign of coming to, or towsrds a barmonions uniom. when Mr. Tilton. on behsif, of the oslore of the Conference. submtted. in writin the foliowns proposal

Rosoiwnd(y the Committe cting the Co Tost the followimg qution t ot p Are you in fevor o s wnion of the twe e o ocitie or o ome o o This uenton w of Ool. Hienineon and his wi s y Co TW. Bigginon ore aron on for any modn ion of preet po Amerian Women Sufrage Asotion W Cor. 1am in fvr o po r fored Mre Luey Stone wee m o p tonand at Cievsiond

Parer Puis y 1 te A on A het omi on . Mre. op o. our—Whet 1 want is Women's Sufrere. w1

--- page 10 ---
234

favor of union with all who are working for the ame t The Committes calling the Comferenoe exprosed me sollowing opinions Mrs. Luorotis Mot—1 believe thet the two Socet should unite by sll means—by such concessions as ec should make to the other. Theodore Tilon—believ the two Societies ought to be combined into oe. Mr. Leurs C. Bullsrd—I am besrtity tu avor of waton, tor 1 think that two societies injure the csuse they botn wish to serve. At this gpimt the American Association's representative withdrew, decliming to socpt any overtures proposed by the callers of the Conference, or to suggest sny of their own. It should, perbaps, be aidbere that communicntions from Mrs. Stanton and Miss Anthony had been received and were read to the Conference early in the session. From lefters by Mrs. Stanton, the following sre extracts

I never think of our division without regret. It detracts so much from the dignity and respectability of the cause in the public mind, st home and abroad. And thew the warfare 1s so petty, so puenile ; I have tried to langh it down. to ridioule it out of existence, and if you can in any way prevent the disgrace of two conventions at one time, in one place, for heaven's sake do it. I will do all I can to that end. If 1 am s stumbling-block to any brotbes or any sister, I will giadly resi7n my office and remain in the wes. untl all is over. Having fought the world twenty years, I do not now wish to turn and fight the noble women who have so long stood together in evil and good report. 1 should be so gisd to bave all united, with Mr. Beecher or Lucretia Mott for our general, that 1 would gladly stay away from conventions sltogether, if thereby we could conciliate Boston. If we of the National are willing to trust the people to frame s counstitution and officer a united organization, why cannot the Amerioan consent also? I am willing to work with any and all who work, or to get out of the way entirely, that there may be av orgamstion that shall be respectable in Europe wnd the world.

A telegram from Miss Anthony resd thus Womon's Suffrage Committee, 56 Avene Hotel The entire west demands united nation orgonization for Sixteenth Amendment, this very Congressional session, and so does Susax B. ANTHONY.

The proposal made by the callers of the Conferenoe was in substance that the two sssocstions claiming to be national should mutnally merge into one, with s pew constitution embracing all the best features of both thew own. with a mew board of officers made up from both theirs, and barmonious action from thet time onward under one national baenner, but with local ausilaries from ocean to ooen, as the vast extent of the country might require. Mrs. Stanton ard Mrs. Livermore, Miss Anthony and Lucy Stone were all named as the proper heads of the most important positions, and six members of the Conference unanimously, jovfully agreed to socept such an arrangement in all its entirety. The following is the constitution as proposed with two or three unimportant verbsl changes:

CONNTTTUTTON OF THE AMBRICAN WOMAN'S TRAN- Cm oIT AnvrcL 1Thi oriton e Amorican Womsn's Fronchise Society Any. 11 omet h e ohise to women on a wit Ans 111Any poion voring this iet a r o o, Assoctstion by paying $1 apnusily or. by payt of $10t o

et An. T7. T ofre of is Aon Preamt, Vins Preint, Corrpon ing y. Reoording Secretary, a Tresurer, an Ancting Committee o three, 0 n E e Commte of S 7o whom fve sall constitute s quorm. Anz. V. The annwal mosting of this Associstion hal be beid in the City of New York on the second Tuesdey in May, whon reports shall be presmiet by the Tres urer, the Socrriaries, ant the Execove Comminee offcors sha be eleoted 1o7 the ensuing yoar and wurh other umene ha e rt e tr the cause may require Anz. VI. Any sts'e or other lors socioty. formed to promote Womse's Suffrage. whall, deciring stelt Avxilisry to this Associstion. be recognined as wuch.

Any. VIL. A special mooting of this Association sha be caned by te Predet e t o y three State societien A special meoting of the tive Committee shall be oalied by the Charman the the roquest of any single auary State society. But he Associstion shall bave bad s previous motice of pot lens than thirty. sno the Committer of mot less than ffoen days. Ant Vill The Execvwe Committee may fill vacan cies in its own bod. or in any office the Presidency cepted). occurring priw to the next ensoing annual mesting of the Assocom. Anz. IX. No money sball be psid to the Treasurer excopt un der the Exocuve Comm tee may provide ARz. X. No distinotion shall ever be made by this Association on socount of color, race, o sen Ant X1. This Constitution msy be smended st anmy meeting of the Association by s vote of three ffths of the members present.

It seemed to at teast si members of the Conferenoe that s more simple, brief, and yet comprebensive and truly democrstic instrument of its kind, could not be framed. In suggesting bsts of off ers to be supported at the first meeting of the mew Society, should one be formed in May, the original proposition was not kept after the withdrawal of the American representatives, even so far as the Natsonal Assocstion was conmdered. Its delegates did not msst upon it, well assured that po union would or could be formed without the names of Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B. Anthony among its prominent directors, nor any Woman's Suffrage Association be effective that should presume to rejeet them and the like of them.

While the two adbering delegations deeply regretted that Mrs. Mott declined the use of her name as Prosident of a pew Association, should one be maugmsted, they could not but approve the reasons she gave, and admire the spirt in which they were communicstes. Her ontrance to the Conference after its busines was opened and whe M. T w his letters, caused a thrill of joy and delight All rone mtmotively to lte er, d he t own amons us a gel presenos. Her socents were the musio, ber words the wisdom and the eloquene of the ooosion. And e had oome eerfully a the way rom Ph phis to give her voice and infinonoe in support of the grand objeot which brought the coufer. ence togethey She poured eulogy and bone diction on the hesds of Mrs. Stanton. Luey Stone and Susan B. Anthony, who, she said. bed for more than twenty yesrs. earpestly. fithtully, laboriously and untiringly struggied for the clevntion and enfrancbinemeno their en And whe wisbed and longed for ret t unity, barmony and besrty co-operstion of the early times of the snterprise. She thought the few Aiforences which might emt. and whh were nmot widsly extonded. conid be reconeiled by a tle mutnal concesion, and thon all nould move on happily. barmonousiy t gio trmpb. While she spoke. and whomever h apoke, all whoe listened must bave folt that it

wis good to be te. But to wht purpose she plended, has been wireny to. It only remine to t me ohe p oms suggestod a ofoer of the proposed pe Associstion s follows Presideng- Thepdore Tuton.

VioPresiie—Mart C. Wright, Freoerich Douginss. Clars Bartn Bomm F. Wase. Myrs Bredwell, Germt Smith, Rev. Gilbert Haven, Samuel Bowies. Myrs Cisrs. Gamen Hon. Mstt. H. Cerpenter. Mrs. Resben E. Fenton, James Bedpath. Emily Pitts Stevens. Mone Ooit Ty er, Mrs. Prof. Darwin, Rechars Mot, Mrs. Gov. MoCo. Geo W. Juin. Re. Frederick A. Noble, Gen Bufes R. Sexton. Charies Bow dsley, ory Gomors O Connor. lowa Mrs. Anne Frances Pulsbury. Sowth Cerolins Gov. Reed, Fiords. Gov. Campoeit. Wyomimg. an6 Rey N. Borion, of Conper ticut Correpo r —Mr Lr C. lard.

Eecutine Committee—Mrs. Abby Hopper Gibbons, New York ex-Gov Root, Lwrenoe, Knas Jabelin Beoober Booker. Hartiord, Conn. Judge J. B. Bradwel, Chicapo. 18. Sersh Pugh. Philsdelphin, Pa. Josephme 8. Grifine Wasbmgion. D. C. Mate G Browe. Boston, Mass. Edwin A. Stndwell Brookiyn. N. Y.: Mrs. Franoes S. Titus, Bate Creek. Mach.Mr. Ehzabeth R. Titon, Brookiyn. N. Y. Franme D. Mouiton, Brookiyn. N. . Elizs L. Leggett. Detro, Mioh. 1w Mr. Tilton only Socepted the maming of imse as President, conditonslly. Mrs. Mott remstod all bis solicitations and entrestion And be wall still, at the proper time and plsce. wrge the names of two, if mot three, other porsons, i

It is due the oallers of the Conference to say that they geperously assumed all the oxponser of the delegates in thew sttondance, and suoh other costs as were incurred.

MR. JULTAN AND 1BE XV1 ANEAD. wENT

Ma. Jraas imtrosnond the Sixtwt Amene ment, which is mpi parphre of the Fif wubsstting wea for oi or ritn The amen ment o t ment t o h It is very evidont thet the mtont of thie motion to t trot motir to Fulin, ot e That sufering crtur o mg e for r. co ape p mot pube o ton i for propo roug want of o wt t otion o p the amen ament—t be fough ow rt

The Philsdriphis Press so promounoes on the sttempt of follow Republon ong ow an ernest and honest fond th ierty t. o goo0 report. to do jute t womn There re Repulion 1 shoutd have wxpotad t r agamst My Julien, but Mr Forners Pre not one of hom And yot advonste for the maune of justie nd comperes mot y Had Me. Julian been pew and a vort to the dooine of Woman Sug e

--- page 11 ---
oven been, iie 5o many Republicans, Eiors, a plenty, inciuded, converted to oolored male citzenahip only as militsry and then politionl party necoesity, his case would have been very different. But none cen know better than Mr. Forney, that for many years Mr. Julian has been well and widely known as a champion for the total and unconditional aboltion of siavery and the elevation of the slave to all the rights of ciuzenship. And, if such an stlusion be pardonsble, when, a dozen years ago, he married the accomplished daughter of Joshus R. Giddings. he sympathized rully with her im the entire doctrine of the Rights of Woman. And so the vulgar sneer of the Press at "that sufferimg creature called woman, is not more paltry. than is the charge unjust, that what Mr. Julian dr1d m offering the Stxteenth Amendment, was only "to attract notice to himself."

But there is an implied principle in this censure, rather than oriticism, of Mr. Juhsn by the Press, more reprebensible stull. It says, “In this country the reform must precede the amendment—must be fought out first." By which we are to understand that Congress has nothing to do with reform, and that to move a measure t promote it, even though it be one so importsnt as the enfranchisement of womsan, is out of place, is out of order, if not indeed, s censursble offence.

Such morslity, however, in politios 1s not strauge, when it is remembered that it has lone boon inoulosted in the cburch. Stavery survived unharmed, untouched by auy efficient church saction, for generations. When the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions was arraigned for its complicity with slavory, it defended itself on the ground that slavery was a civil and politicsl insutution and that its missionaries must not therefore interfere with it. And so the Creek, Cherokee and Chootaw Mission Churcbes were made up, in considersble measure, of slsvebolders. In 1845, the Board at its annual meeting was compelled by the growth of anti-slsvery sentiment to apologize for its course and that of its missionaries. 1t apoointed an imposimg committee with Rev. Dr. Woods of Andover Thelogicsl Seminary as Chairman, to investigate and report. The substance of that report was contamed in a single sentonce as sfterwards simplified and rendered by a member of the Board itself, namelyThat it 1s the duty of this Board to prosecute the work of saving souls, without interfering with the civil condition of society any faster han the consciences of th people beoome enlightmed." And on that philosophy the church acted, not only on the subject of slavery but also of polygamy in the Mission Churches. For in 1846 the Board was again memorialized on that subject also. And a committee was spointed to make report, Chancellor Walworth of New York, being chairman. As was expected, the report cloaked the sin. It was found thst polygamists were in the mismon churches and the course of the missionaries was sustained by s unanimous vote of the Board. There was some discussion, but Chancellor Walworth and Dr. Tyler silenced evory clamor by a single remark, each. The former said, "Polygamy is common in Turkey. and oases may arise there. In New York polysamy is felony, but there it is lawfat." And Rev. Dr. Tylor, an instructor of ministers and mi sionaries at another distinguished Theologionl omary, 3 in the dio, W e good right to ask this Board to say that polysamy in extreme onses is right, as others bave to ask us to say thet it is wrong!" With such

en xpoundingnd expisining by D.D. m L.L.D.'s, afl were so fully convinced. that when the fimal vots was taken, not one negative hand or voice was raised

Such was the standard of church morality in the epoch of sisvery and for sught tht is known. is still as respects polygamy, It i the business of the church to prosecute the work of saving souls without interferimg with the civil condition of society, any faster than the consciences of the people become enlightened. To enlighten the conscience onhe of m stoaling, of slave-broeding an slave-trading i no part of the businens o s christan missionary. To encroach on Brigham Young's prerogstive of muttiplicity of wives is no part of the wors of the Amencan Bosrd of Commissioners for Foreign Missions in Turkey, because Chancellor Walworth pronounces polygamy lawral there, though in New York the mission converts might be confined in a felon's cell, minus the ministrations of even a single wife.

To the same casy virtue Mr. Forney commits the politics of republicanism. And with religion and poltics thus him ted, what wonder that “reform must be fought out And fought against what, but this very religion and repubhoanism! The Press says, “the very fact that Mr. Julian's amendment can be offered simost without attracting notice, i evidence that the public is not yet ready for the discussion of the question. But i that any resson why the amendment should not be moved in Congress, in the Press, im every press. in every pulpit. in every place? 1s the fact that balf the popointion of the country are ignomimiously, unjustly, unrighteously prosoribed, despoiled of all civil and political rights on sccount of sex, is that fact reason for Mr. Julian's silence, for Mr. Forney's silence, for everybody's silence, except a few fanstical women and more fanstical men, as people, press. pulpit, everybody almost, everywhere, bas been accustomed to call the earnest workers in every movement for reform? Isthat enhghtenment of conscience which is essentisl to every step in resl progress. political ss well as morsl. the work of fanstio alone ?Hos the church nothing to do with enlightening the conscience of Turkey and Arabis on the question of polygamy, or of the Cherokee and Choctaw proselytes, on slavehoiding?

Has Congress no interest, no duty, in the enfranchisement of the best, bravest, purest, noblest half of the American pation, thet Mr. Ju. lisn must be tauntingly reproved for moving s preliminary step in that direction, and all womankimd insulted and sneered st in the same bresth, by the mde of their champion? Then what is the business of Congress? Of what earthly use is such a church, such a pulpit for if reform has to be fought out"agsinst cburch, congress and government, wnti party demagogues and deceivers oan sately and wuecessfully reap their harvests of spoils. f the oosoience of the people has o beenlightened by “fanstios and infidels"(s all proneer reformore in every age have been oslied by the respectabilitien in state and oburch), why csnnot the whole work of ne the wortd be 1t to thm 1 both the popi reigion and republicsnism osn wink at and tolerste. age after ags. such wholesale sbominations as slsvery and polygsmy. untl by infiuences wholly outside of themsetves the public conscionce sufficiently enlightened to repudiste thom. how oan they be eutrusted to treat with lo oviis Every aay. vory hou, nd w as day, proves that they camnot. And there

ot ome umn per mpening t oe ower the publie or persoma prosperty or ety of the mation, oome rom whet soure it my. against which suy man or woman feels any more secure on 000unt of the exinteno o tion of what is called the government, or the church. Indeed. from Mr. Formey w rt ment of Mr Julian nd his smeniment, the women cm see that they ba vs mo worse foe to firht agninst, than the Congrew whose work be has volunteered to mark ont i bs evere ad most unwarranted strictures on Mr Jubsn, t the be ad of this arbcle r

LETTER FROM XI188 ANTBOVY

Jorsvman. Mich. Aprit 7. 1870 Dras REvoLuIo81 sent telogram to Theo dore Titton yesterday to 5th Avenne Conferenen, and bope it got there m tame to be rend. There but one feehog al through this giomous west sheme to hewe s front st this suspicions moment. One strong. bold pull af together, and the victory is ours. The west will decide sny who siand for the order of fheir gotngas hindranoes, and leave them behind.

The west w.ll be lergely, griously represented at our May Anmiverssry. And at will aemand wion every ti And must have it. All the differences and disngreoments of pertie and persons must be put in the background. Every eye must be fixed on the gosl—the Sr- TREwT ANRDME. Semstor Trumbull nd Bepresentative Bingham must report the bills now sieeping in thew committees for immediae aoion. Everywhere in the splendid sudiences in Dlinois, and mow bere in Michigan, the vote is wnan imous, demanding that Congress submi the proposition. Everywhore the peopie in dignty resent and spurn the ides that the inteligont women of this mation—the peers of our pres dents, judges. congressmen wnd legiistors. must go down snd ask the ignoran mans of men it they will graciously pormt them to bwe a voioe in the government. Nol no s the thundering answer. It is hwmiiating enough tor us to be compelled to ast the Representstiven t Washington and the Stnte Capias for what is owr right, and sbout whoh they bave po business to way yes or may to us. more than we to speak or decide for them.

1 t1l you. if our Representstives in Congrens oould see and bear the homes indione ion of the Aonest peopie of the country. they would ench and all make haste to emct what we omend and must and will have. To the rosone. en. very one for A Congrese betore it shall adure the prot wion! We oan oom and Ws on only anl of we will on Lot afl, then. come ur t New Vork on the 10.h of May. and let us pot i great woeel and push o to emphatonilyWoms worL e po lager i h afl stick together.

P. . Eimee my lt e Quincy. Farmington, Eimwood. Monata. Pore and La Salle—Bsts in. Peoris wnd Champig in Timoi. and i S Fom . 1o And t the o e p y way to pieh the bos ayes. Not one of me, of sou

--- page 12 ---
236

blundered; but if only we are each in carnest we shall each forgive, in the faith that that other, Like ourself, is esrnest—meoans right. How any ope can stind in the way of a wnited national organisation at an bour hke this, is wholly inexplicable to Susas B. ANTHON.

Chitorial Corrrspondense.

JACKSONVILLE, Fla., March 6th, 1870.

JACKSON vILLE, Fls., March 6th, 1870. DraAn REvVoLUTION Flomda 1 bebaving this winter sometoing like a hostess tired of wninvited guests; she cannot shut ber doors and forbid entrance, nor can she withhold her goods, but she can frown and be reserved and chilly, almost frigid in her aurs; beaming out occasionally im ber matural character, and then cloudimg over agnim. In short, the westher, the universal topic of conversation, is as' capricious as it is at the morth. We take the fag end of all your storms. When you haye a bravy snow and extreme cold, we get a rain, thunderstorm, and the mercury sinks down to forty. and this morning we had a white frost, and our spirits were below zero, notwithstanding our light-wood fire, which ought to brighten even s msanthrope.

There was one white frost iast month, some said one black one, but as we did not see the ice, there are doubts, for we do not believe much we do not see with our very eyes. We have seen the trees white and pmk for weeks past with cherry, peach and orsuge blossoms, and the air loaded with perfume, notwithstanding all Mr. Train says to the contrary. We bave many days of geuial sunshine, the mercury ranging from fifty to seventy-five, even to eighty-four occasionally for a fe hours when there was neem ngly no elect icity in the atmosphere, but tha has been oly omoe or twioe, amd was not, after all, much hke dog days. Oranges bave been abundant and delicious, and apples are about the same price that they are in New York.

Mr. Train says those who come bere need to bring a barrel of whiskey and a half-barrel of quinme. Mr. Train speaks from the experience of a few days, we from that of three winters, and we bave never seen the loant meed of whiskey, and have only reason to regret that so many from the month set the bad example of drnking in the presence of the colored people, who are but children, and need good example as well as precept. It seerns a sad fac that drunkennens follows in the wake of cilization. As for quinine, there is ittle meed of that when nature bas so abundantly provided the sour orange. What one does need to bring is warm, substan tial olothing, and sense enough to change with changes of the weather. One needs to bring alno, a stook of pationce, for the nsatives of warm climstes are not secustomed to burry and drive ; henoce, thin is the place for rest.

1f any one comes here expeoting to find a finished city, he will be dappointed. Indeed. the plce is rude and new, and looks slo enly, but 3t in ts infaney, and afer ail it i mot we very much worse than worthern eites. There are hore, at least, none of the fetid odors of olose and dirty streets a im Neow York or New Haven We did tih of hpt o ing-houses and lodgings, but after more though and putting ourselves for a lite while in the place of our delioste, refined, and imeperionoed landlady, we withhold, for bowever considerste we may be a lodgers, t in hanklos tok t

take into ome's house severst strsngers wnd try to please them all. More than onos we bave watched the flushed cheek and the quivering hp s some damty boarder shoves back me piate and turns up bie immaculste mose at dih which doss not tckle his fastidions palate Last Thursdny we rose at day-break. pcked our bags and took the Florence for an up river. trip, mot knowing what should befel us, for we can go to Palatks for s doliar, or stop st the first laoding, and it's the same price

The first thing which dod befal o was the meeting s last winter's friend who had sought us m vain im the city Losded with Indian River oranges, we foasted and prolonged our trip, which was set on foot for Mandarin, to Magnohs, where we found many fmends. The Winter Home' . imdeed, s hbome Dr. and Mrs. Rogers are im thewr might places. dispensing hospitality with libersl grace.

It was a fortamste day to be there. 4 fias had been raied to celebrate Wasbington's birthday, snd upon this day there was a formal presentaon of it to the proprietors of the Home. he guests ssemled on the piazza. when the meedmen employed on the place came marching round singing. We sare marching along," then gathermg sbout the flag stafl, they sang again, Roally round the flag, boys," and other songs. One or two rather set speechos followed in the presentation. Dr. Rogers secepted gracetully. and then came another song by the company. Then there was oall for Mr. George Whittier, from Portisnd, Mams. a young soldier, and a cousm of Jobn G. Whittier. His spoech wes an enthusstic outburst for freedom, which thrilled every beart. As the young man was unaccustomed to, public speaking, his speech bad not the finished graces of oratory, but it had. what is far botter, feel ing that made others feel too.

At five, socompanied by many frend. we again took the Florence, and at balf-past six resched Mandarin, unexpected goests st the Owl's Nest, m the hve-ok tree. As we came o the front of the bous, we coud look in and see the dear. cheerful family st tes. Ab, what ploasant sight! And then the warm welcome in from the dark might made us at bome at once

We are not going to wolate the laws of bospitsly by tolling you auythimg we aw or besrd—nothing sbout the plesssnt even ings. the long, detightul tslks in the wnotum, the walks, the diives, the gathorme oranges. and flowors—grest creamy oslles blooming in the open sr, rone. verbens. the canns Indics, asaims, the blue i—but above all, the pescetnl Ssbbath in the litte church m the growe. which i a sobool-house through the week, snd the sanctuary on Sunday.

Onoe a day we go to see the growth of the bananss, which sre mow frusting. The largest planted st yost is aout twentyee high. the stalk ten imchos in dismeter. On warm days tesf will grow botween three and tout mohes. The buds are enciosed in large purple shesth. Each day bogins to open oe e froit, with the flower on 1 tip, appesrs. The frot, upke mont other fi. forms in the matri Fige are growing quite ge, wd posches and plums bogin to appos. Suwher Tie re wory . ct e i dant, a there i mot one pieoe for l the areedy months here We heve many th ont Wom For this purpose we threw ourel on southorn peopis. One aay ty

knew any of thowe women sbout whom te Trine wiked o t Washington. We rephied thet we ad. at we were t oe We then banded her several copies of Tnx Rareturning them subseried for Tas Revo. and remar d tht e g i anything thet the 7ribune nssd sbout peopie from this tine forth he then e questions sbout the besrmg beiore the committoe which was so misreported.

Seversl days bave passed simoe the shove was writton. We have been busy with many things Having resolved to lecture. there were the usus preparstions to be made.Furst, there was the Hsll to be secured. when. wpon appestion, the owner said to we, I am very glad thet the subject is to be presented bere. 1 will ao whet 1 oen to get an sudienor for yem.” with meny other kand, obliging thmgs

Han bils werwposted Monny mormg. notce to be given in Tuesday morming's par er Alss' with the morrnmg light oame thunder amd hghtming and rain in torrents. it knows bow to ran in this istitude but at noon the blue aky apprared. and by wight o ock the walkng was good. the moon in its fofl, and on our arriyni at the ball, we found. as our doorkeeper sad, "rignt smart of people thex.” 1Ins short time the ball was nurely filled, snd more sttentive or spprecistive sudience ooutd mot be desired. Several, both ladrer and genemen, seid they were converted to our mews. and resdy for Woman's Suffrage

This is the first locture of the kind ever g.wen in Florida, but 1 sm confi dent it will not be the 1ast. Indeed. I shall pot be surprised if some of the southern states do justion to woman before the whole of New Englend. A gentieman ftrom Michigsn remarked that our lecture made him proud of bis wtste. the statutes there were so much m ov f tho which we quoted from Massachunets and Rhbode Island. Yet Michigen. with all ber gallantry and lberality. which bes gone beyond even-handed justioe. wtl atr ohi ber daughters.

Last Sebbath we wont to soe bapmnge The prescber forvently exborted comgrene tion afl to be present st the veremony when thene ton or twelve should be puried wit Je in the “hquory greveThe hiee candidates, the cold water, bisok and turtd, the sharp wind, the agonimed feoes o the 8 minstrstors, all combined to make beyone messure wad, for we could only regard it expression of soperstition, eer. but ignorant of all thet constitues res Chri tanity ———————————

Mp. Ma.—An indoponan Woma ufage Aoion o A Co Mass., was formed m COambridge st Conven tion on the 7th and St mt w board of offcers Presiden—Mrs AdC Bowles, of Cambriage VoPren R Gubert Haveon. Maiaon, Mi orn Waltham. Rew. Jone Jonen Natiok. M Mary E. Hall, M. D., Lowell Seorctary Min Ser 3ay, of Chaiotown Tronsrer Mrs Ce Loot. o Mp Our oteemed frond. who sont the opert o the Convenon, ads, to cio Th o me

--- page 13 ---
THE WORKING WOMAN."

Taz WomAw Laoruazn.—From present indications, we should say that the pext ton yesrs threaten a visitation terrible as that of the seventeen years loousts, and likely to be of nruch longer dursation, in the shape of swarme of women lecturers. Women who cannot write a respectable newspaper article, think they can win fame and fortune upon the platform, just ss the degenerste seions of noble English famines, who were nmot considered good for anything else, foand a resource in the church.

Lecturing is gradually acquiring the dignity of a profession in this country, and those women who posssess the natursl and scquired qualifications, will find in it a field of bonorable and useful activity; but successfal oratory requires a combination of rare qualificstions, which few men or women possess, and, though individuals of either sex may be galvamzed into a certain brief and ephemeral notoriety. yet it requires the possession and exercise of extraordinary faculties to render such success permanent.

The latest aspirant for orstorical honors is Miss Lilhan C. Edgarton, whose romantic appellation would seem to belong to some school girl of the blonde type, but who is really a mature young woman, of large, firm figure, prepossessing, somewhat English face, and chesnut brown baw, which she wears in curls over a fashionsble chignon.

Miss Edgarton bas been spoken of as the first prominent woman opponent of Woman Suffrage; and the extravegant and fulsome praise bestowed upon her in certain quarters, seemed to intimate a dosire to foree her into that position. Her own declaration of principles, ss contained in her lecture, delivered recently at Cooper Institute, does mot justify this assumption at all. Her ground was precisely that of Mrs. Croly iu her Woman's Parliament tupon which, indeed, her whole ides was based), viz., that education for business and public life should come before Suffrage, and that this education, this aptitude, should be secured by associations of women among themselves, corresponding to the woman “councils," which the Parhament leaders recommend—that women form in every city, town, and village, for the purpose of correcting public evils, suggesting practical remedies, and securing working organizations among women, which could send their delegates to perhament, and by their unity aoquire a morl power and strongt whioh would compe conpmideration and attention to their demands.

Miss Edgarton embodies this ides of femsle orgenization in her lecture, and recommends it strongly, but in the very next bresth disavows it utterly, and declsfes that the only sttraction among women is the attraction of repuision, and goes on with a lame and very sntiquated piooe of clap-trap, to the effect that all women are hard on their own sex, draw their skuts away ftiom contact, ete., ete. This mngoler inconsistoncy gives to ber lecture a curousty patchy and piece-work effeot. 1t sppears to be the work of other minds then her own. or st any rets, to embody crudely the thoughts of totally distinct classes of persons.

Porbaps the veitoration of the false and worn out stuff sbout women's fatsuy and crusity towards wach other was simply intended as clever Ltde uick to "bring down the house, as it mever fails to do, in an sudience where mon are present; but it is a sort of jugaiery that dingnsts sensible women, and was exoeedingly out of taste from a woman who takes the

modern stand-point in regard to ber own se3, and owes all the possibilities of ber future to what they have achieved in the past. How men can continue to ropest the falsehood of women's injustioe to women, in face of the every-day facts they know to the ocontrary. is only to be explained upon the presumption that it suits them to take that view of the questicn; but, for a woman to repert the slander. is treachery to ber sex. as well as disregard of truth.

Who but women founded the Homes for the Friendless, theInstitutes for Fallen Women Who but such women as Mrs. Richmond, who hes dead, unhonored, and unsung, bave devoted fortune, strength, life, to the unthankful and ill-requited task of reening the wctms of men's lust trom the abyss of degradation mto which they bave fallen? And why is the task of such women unthankful and ill-requited? Because, in their poverty, they cannot offer the preminum to wirtue that man offers to wioe. 1s the woman who slanders ber whole sex, before hundreds, any better than she who whispers the poisoned venom in the ear of one?

Miss Edgarton lacks one essential qualification for her work, and thst 1 purpose and earnestness in the prosecution of it. It is in this respect particularly that Annpa Dickinson, in her inspired utterances, towers so immessursbly above ber. Miss Anna E. Dickinson is a prophet, wailing. warning, beseeching. .or s mother threatening and entreating, her beart, her soul, in her magnetic eyes, im ber vibrating voice— Miss Edgarton is a carefully-trained elocutionist, with a fine voice, a good manuer, when it aoquires more freedom, and ideas which she soeems to have appropristed from s variety of sources, and put together in a somewhat incongruous way ; but she gives evidence of sbility. which only requires experience and a high objeot to render ber a glorious sequisition to the ranks of enfranchised and indep ndent working women.

LIGH1 FROM 1HE EAST"

Awono all our western exchanges, there is mot one conducted in better temper and spirit than The Present Age of Kslamazoo, Michigan. The Spirttualists are almost to a man, and a woman, in favor of Women Suffrage. Ther conventions declare for it and their public Jeoturers and journals almost, if not wholly, advocate it; not cantingly and patronizingly, but m good solid, sober earnest, as genuime and mtelligent belevers in the primciple, in the absolute right and justice of the doctrine ; in praotice, as wellas in preaching or proclamation. And so the tollowing remarks of 78 Present Age on the pending sttempts to barmonine the difforences that have arinen in the minds of some of the workers in the Cause of Woman (omitting most of the personsi silusions) sre portinont and proper, and deserving of the same kindly, friendly consideration with which they are presented

We received calls for comven ions a ae r American Womsn's Suffrage Association, and sise rom he Nton Wom sufrage Ansoci ion. som p what we cught to say upon the subseot all the Ume hoping thet some way would open to entrite the trienos of this important rerormtory a proureive mosere rom the tor t re oived by thse cim f tw ede t y t o oyo to be breaking in the Bast We 84 e folon ing weh, whseh wit te appe ht , w in Tas Revos owon of March $eth, give ws bope t

237

wof p om. $ or poti sy. We smorly hop t o par y tis ind 0vine in te pirst in whicn i ; ton t4, t oi of ap y wi with tegrt oy of or . caue, giving we 0 much promise of good is the aet futnreIt is mot onr purpon t ie , or to the origin or probable enime of this ouble. Ws judse from what we sew in Cleveinnt of the touin ma0 y Antonywt we o exnibited in Boston towrs Mr Son t Gontly unfriendly words and spirt at the Stets Comvee tion Michigen, rem me o t cion and tho who participeted t org New York, that the awis ao mot ri ove mere prronal preudice, and possibly apon o per ————————————————

AwornEn Invrne BA.—Its Piols delphis. The Post of that city gives sad account of the management cof the Academy of Music there. It seetos that apphestion was made recently by responsible gentiemen who wisbed to rent the building for s lecture toe delivored by Senator Revels of Miseissipps. Surely, the Post says. a Senator of the United States might be allowed to speak in our Acsdemy of Musiec. Bout Ms Revels is s colored man, snd this respectable Board has the megropboma. It hes the worst kind. It hes repestedly refused Frederick Dougless the privilege of iecturing in the Academy, though he has slone more brains than almost any six members of the Board together. So, when the spplicstion was made in beba of Senator Revels, the Bord shusdered it met and profoundly d-liberated; it fnslly came to the conclusion that to aflow Senator Revels to lecture in the Aosdemy of Music would be “mexpedient," and without giving further reason refused to sllow him to speak

VIRGINLA VOICES. —— A womas sends to the Edstor of the Richmond News the tollowing Edtors of the Eroening News 1 am mclined to think. om Betie article 1 the Frenng News of yestorany. thet you sre shout to procism your Woms Sufruge. an desiring to further your procismstion and beve yoo wpeeduly apouse or moie ce. 1 of Mrs. Et Ony tto. for you r erstion. The borribl. ruths it containe murt ronse vour beroim to t o the man. and to ametiorste the condion of milon whe ory, “justice justice' ye ilsw masors y4 tyrsnes

T t in Wyoming Territory, i the onls apecimen of Wo man's Higo woman. tor more t lov women M i O o, chpmpion , in a tew short wes. 1 ope you d t of hearers may be priviieged to ge wpor be. w ton or p toring og An APvoceTs or Womar's romT

An APvoc or Woma' To which the editors of the News thus pal lantly respone plscod t our po pep ports to be nAdares to the Legiture of New York aopted by the St Wome Conventaon. etd a Ay. Fry, 185. phepared by Mrs. E Coy well-known advocete o er . o to sit in the jury-bon. to vote m the peopie snd in sl. ole pren y law. nd to ao on in pu We may premise by s reponaent p ouie of m

--- page 14 ---
238

if we do mot misteks, mative here and to the manor born. When wuch a lady steps forward in advooacy of privileges which the law has thought proper to deny her sex, it may well be asked if woman has mot wrongs to be mighted as well as man? and it may be wise to consider now tost a wider lstitude has been given to manhood suffrage by the spirit of this sage. whether a blunder may not have been committed by our lawmakers in excluding from the jury and ballot-box an educated snd bighly refined clas of individuals. After s good deal more, some of which ssvors of Soutbern politices and need not be introduced bere, the sarticle is thus eloquently closed

The limits of a ne wepaper article will not permit us to notice, as we intended, the eloquent arguments set forth within the pages of Mrs. Stanton's pamphlet. But this much must be acknowledged, that no champion of woman oould have been better qualified to undertake the righting of her wrongs—if profound rescarch, well estsblished facts, and indomitsble oouage be considered as convincing. It we should but grant her premise sound, we then perioroe admit that sll her conclusions are correct—but this we cannot honestly do. As a specimen of her style we extract fiom ber pages the following For woman, alss! there is mo bigber law than the will of man. Herein behold the bloated conceit of the Petruchios of the law, who seem to say:

ay, look not big, mor stamp, nor stars, not ret, 1 will be mastor of what is my own; Sbe 1s my goo0, my chattsls; she is my bouss, My bousenod s, ms fe1d, my barn. My horse, my ox, ms aes, my nying And here she stan ds, touch her whoover dare I'll bring my sotion on the proudest he That stops my way in Pada. How could man ever look thus on womsn? she at whose feet Socrates learned wisdom—she who gave the world a Saviour, witnessed alike the adorstion of the Mags and the agonies of the

DisTINoUIS ED ARRIVALS.—They constitute an important department in the city dsihrs. Ta REvoLUIOoN off oe, Twenty-third street, wes greeted 1ast Monday morming, severe as was the storm, with most agreeable calls from Mrs. Lucretis Mott and scting Gov. Lee of Wyoming. The meeting was quite unexpeoted, and with Mrs. Phelps' and Mrs. Wilbour added to he party, a most pieasant and profitable hour was enjoyed. Gen. Lee gave excellent and enoouraging reports of the conduct of the Wyoming women in their mew relations, and is confident there can be no future regrets at the act of justie done to the poblest ball of bumamity in exaltimg it to equal ostinenship in bis flourishing torritory. And moreover, be very cheerfully sooepted an mvitation to attond our May anniversary and tell us all about it.

RusstAn VAroR BATHS—PRIoFs REDUOED The well known estsblisbment, No. 23 and 2 East Fourth street, hes just beon renovated. pamted and put in most tempting and luxun ous order every way, and with prices reduced to ten dollare for packege of fiftoon boket the patronase i py rosching wll the ontorprising propristors can desire. The heslthy wo there to wash and be clean the dinense, with oold, coughs, theumstim, neursigs, to wash and Le bealed,

hs entin THE PEACE CONPERRNCE.

Ap7 the rego moeting of the Cimommet Womsn Suffrage Associstion, beld on the 9 of March. the followimg resolntions were adopted snd forwarded to the Confereneoe Whers, There ha arien pr Ginoor the friends of Womsn Sofrags, whih hes irty pro Guced opposing fastions threstening materiay to m are and retard the suocess of the case Thereiore. Resoved. Thst e Womsn's Suffrage Ansociation of Omeimat ba wi r y every movement to units s7 in systematic efort, bo cure to woman the baliot and every other pontiesl righ equaily with man Rooolved. That the good of the caase sowid out weigh every other consideracion. and as harmony fin our rsnks is absoimioly e ial, there hould be bu one National Associstion

Rosolved, That this Asocistion dep'y depiored the movement whersby the Amerwan Womsn Sufrage Asmo ciation was tormed .—belie mg thet i the National Woman's Soufirage Association was Seficient i an parice lar, the good of the cause required it to be remodeied and improved. and pot a rival one formed although we do mot impugn the motives of thowe who orgenined the Associstion st Cloveland. Rosotv. Tht ou A y movement for Consererce to be beld et for the Circular on the 6th of April. 1870, and wust it will be able to reconone sli ivisions, and recommend a plan of union satisfactory to all AwNz L RYDE. Lume Com. Jor B. QUn , Signed. Respactully.

Signed.

Signed. Respectully, Jos B. QU, Cor c'y O W. The sbove are only given as specimen of the almost myrisd voi00s that have come swelling up from North, South and East, as well as West!— Ad. Rev.

IDOWS OF HUSBANDS, DEAD AN. LIVING.

IDOWS OF HUSBANDS, DEAD AN. LIVING.

A 2250.0m108 bas been introduoed into the Kansss legisiature, instructing the judiciary committee to “report a bill giving to widows o deceased busbands the exclusive control of all property, both resl and personal, and empowering them to pay all legal clsims sgainst the estotes of said deceased persons, and to eol lect all moneys due such estates.

In view of this measure, Mrs. Nichols asks. in the Kansas Commo. aralth, if there is pot m the logslature amother man in the Bouse, who will introduce a resotion for bill in beblt of the same co-widows of Uning e curing to them st least pis money tron the proeeds of the estates which legally absor their entire earnings and savmgs? Under the present laws. whe ay, the wite has po leg claims to a pownyworth of principal or wse in the estate acoumulnted by the joint savmgs and carnings of berself and busband. during bis life. Only his desth gives ber an mdefessible right to s portion of such ertate. (Men must bave great confidence mthe forbering love of women to sieep of sights with such premium sttached to ther decesse) Mr Nichols das thttbs eoo ie for public benefactors to give of thes substance. distibuting portions of their esites during theow lifetime, instend of leaving it. as formerly, will. It would be s happy mexi step ton the male besds of families to drwade with the fo male beads, and thus enjoy in ife luory which the baobolor Pesbody eonld mot—the rostrl contet of well ondowed parteer in the bome departmeont. The smell. gein in pinmoney wold o t 1oes t Geose of husband. kind in the ol p

ANRIVERSARY or TH2

or TH2 NA11ONAL WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE ASS80- CLATION. —— Tan Associstion will hoid its reguier smnul meosting m Coorns Iwrro Kew York. on Tuday the 100 of May. mext bogiming ttn o'clock s. m., 54 contng, probbly. throug Wedne sdey and Thursday.

The various Womsne SufirageAssocitions througbout this country, and the Oid World, are invited to send delegates to this Convention prepared to report the progres of owr movement in their respective looaties. And. in order thet this amnual meosting may be the epression of the whole people we further ask every finend of Womsn Suffrage to oonsider bimeelf or berself personaily invited to attend snd take part in its di scnssions.

With the phistaos rights of woman secured in the Territores of Utab snd Wyoming—with the sgtation of the question in the various Stste Legsistures. with the propostion to strike the word “male" trom the stste copstituon of Vermont— with New York. New Engisnd and the great West well orgamized, we are confident that our lesing poltiosl parties will soon soe that their own interest smd the hughest imteret of the country require them to recognine our

The Executive Committee recomment the triends of Womsn's Suffrage. everywhere, to concentrate their eforts upon the worl of - curing a Suxteenth Amendment to the Feders Constitntion thet shall prohibst sny stte from srrancoing any of, its citizens on ooount of ex. Therefore, we ask the dolegntes and friend, to come to this May Anniversary wit practicsl suggestions as to how this work shall be dune.

The following are smong the wpeakers airesdy secured for the oocasion Elizsbeth Cady Stanwood and. Jenmie Colline, Mass M. Addle Bartitt, Mich. Mrs. Frenoes Minor and Phobe Cornens, Mo. Hon. Henry 8. Stenton Judge Barlow. Cannestots Josephine S8. Grifing. Rev. Phoe A. Hansord, Lime M. Boo. Maud D. Molson, Susen B. Anthony. Gen. E. M Lee, Act Gov Wroming Bon A G Ris. dle. Washington. Hon. Jes WStlmen. Rhode Inland. Cot K. GIngersol. T and Hon. 3 M. Soobell, New Jersey The names of otber distnguisbed speskers will be announced as ast the wr Communiostions and contruo for mecting sbould be 33ree Corr ponding Secretnry

ELIZABETH CADY STANTON Pres Onamorrs B Whoun, Oor Sees. 151 East 51t wtroet. New Vor

Puss BaAwne Bea three yenrs New Vork his boon in ireated pro r hshments for iwrins populson. ol and youngs. Bowton hes mo oniy w oble example in regrs t hom. bot Ao rtd o wle a pore as to Jouwe me Aou t wiety po p e t l. N Lm wesk, the 5t in., p mt o 500 sret, om g

--- page 15 ---
THE NEW TOURK COUNTY WOMANS SUFFRAGE ASSOCLATION.

Tas informal meeting of this Association wes hold on Friday lest at Mrs. Halleok's. Among the porsons present were seversl strangers inoluding a professor and students of Vasssr College. Mrs. Dr. Codrys, of Michigan, resd sn address apon "The incentives to larger culture the possession of the elective franchise would give to woman." This lsdy has one of the sweotest and best modulated voices I have ever heard. Previous to resding ber address, the dootor informed us thet she had never before sttended s Women's Suffrage meeting, snd had never heard a lecture upon the subject, but she had always been in favor of educating the sexes alike; and when she decided to study medicine had sought such colleges as admitted both male and femsle otudents. She had been at two colleges with male students, and oould testify to the pleasing fact that she had pever seen in either college any disrespect shown to lady stadents by the gentlemen. This was lorgely owing she thought to the judicions management of the professors of each college.

The president read an srticle from the pen of Mr. Ware, in which he accuses women of uncharitablecess, selfishness, idleness, rapidity, a vain desire to be admired, in fact, being as s class wholly deficient in all the qualities bitherto Gpposed to constitute the essential basis of female character. This article called out an able, carnest defence of women from Mrs. Leggett, and very many excellent and pertinent remarks from nesrly all the persons present. The transaction of important private business occupied the remainder of the afternoon. and at five o'olock the meeting adjourned to meet at the same place on Friday of this week.

ANNA DIUKINSON AT HOME.

ANNA DICKINSON's hearers last evening, April 7th, well-mgh endangered the sarchitectural strength of our Grand Academy. Seven yesrs ago I heard herton the same platform ; ber frien ds then filled the house, they have been sugmenting notwitbstemding her varied topios, ever simee. Lost night the culmimary throng packed the immense space, anditorium, stage and orchestra. loaving the speaker but threg feet squnre for oratorical gesture, and compelling the musicians to retire. Promiums were offered on tokets and a host of folks remained at home to awsit hor nmext appearsnoe. She plowed to the core of her subject, throwing corrupt soll at everybody's door, then, with the harrow of justice and expediency she levelted the mational inequolition. With tears whe pieaded with the mon and women of our lend to sow clean seed that the barvest may bear God's best fruit. Altogother she was logiont and beartarnest, and for one I feel bappier, with renewed strength. for having heard her. Y ours, . h.

Phisdelpbia, April Sth. Miss Dickinson gave the same lecture in Stemway Hall in this oity on Tuesdny evening of last week, and every word of the above commendntion would apply perfectly bere. So many claims on our columns to-day prevent the more extended notsoe we had prepared to give and which was most ricbly esrned.—Ad. Rew.

Mus. Srawro 1 Cm0a0.—On the Sunday before tast, Mrs. Stanton ooeupied the pulpit of v. Robert Cotyer. The spacions churoh ws orowded in every port, and it wes estimetod

3s Beraintian.

hetr own sentimntn, and not T REvOLTIO SPECIE NOT A NRCESSITY.

Tas theorists and writers upon fimance all take fo rat tht the xpe p o the world should be conclusive upon this question, and with these promises base thewr conclusons secordmgly. This is specious, but when we look into it s moment we will st once disoover its utter fallacy. A ocentury since, our forefathers disoovered that the politieal theores of the Old World were fallacies. They boldly repudiated them snd innugursted a mew ers m opposition to the dvine right of kings and other specious beresies that mankind had been so long taught as true that mo one questioned them. It is now bigh time that their finsncial dogmas were trampled under foot and shown to be no better than their other idols.

Our gigantic rebellion (compared to whose colossal proportions all other revolutions sink into pigmy quarrels) bas taugbt us some lessons, which, if we wisely heed, will prove s lasting benefit and perbaps more than pay the whole cost of treasure destroyed. Let us consider some of them a moment.

In the first year of the contest. when we were just getmg good relde to rpple wi the monster, specie and its allies dropped from under us. The grest Amencen Union would have soon been a thing of the past, and the stil greater cause of Humsn Liberty, of man's ospacicy for self-government would have been total failure had there been no more stsble toundation than this fiokle and dangerous clement. The despots of Europe, anxiously ho, ing and praymg for the destruotion of our politios inst tutions, which would have been a repewed lesse perhaps for thousands of yoars of thewr prerog atives, felt confident their hopes were to be speedily reslimed when they sew us compelied to suspend specie payments, practically sewing up our pockets in so ort me They expected us soom to stagger md fall as our bresth had so soon given out.

The results showed that men were mever more mistoen. We possessed the me o weslth they mewer areamed of. Sinking hipe and burning bouses wopld have bormfied grave finamoters a the best possible basis for securties. But hed Secretary Chase been governed by the rulon 5 the toe mtn o iy. o et wo e o e as worthless as the sinking ships and burning houses. Never was the finsncil blunder of making the terrible 1owse of the ooury (t lows than two or three millions dsily or by s44ing that of the south to it. wesrly doubling these figuren) the foundation of 1ts wenlth, ronter wuooe.T ot only orrid the contest triumphantty, buy being man tained, has simee osused our country to prosper wth unexsmpied rapidity, oipping ery thing in even our own previously gioion reer

Now it is a fect, giaring as the moon-day son. that this has all been secomplished without the aid of peie. o t t of tin oleci. Amy othr pple w totlly fatled in orushing woh reeion, o

y y me wo it o mpoverisbed a to re yr of t rooover from its exbon. We. on the ontrary, osme out mch and heve oomtinmed to prosper—in fact conquering sud going on to oonquer.

These sstounding facts should pot be forsotton. We sbousd be foolsh to igmore th and go on the back track merely to 4o bomage again to the 30l of the O Word, fon oerwminly no otber reason has been shown why we should do s0. No demonstration oan be more comciusive than tht specie 1s mot aopted to te mteresta, prospepity or grentnens of the American mation, and whetber we look at the momentous comsequenoes involved. the fearful ordesl undergone or the glorions results sttained, ow wonder is unbounded. This generstion should Dever osase contempisting them. I propose in my next mumber to consioer the nature and character of coin as cviliner in the light of aet recent experence, and to determime its resl value to mankind politionlly snd so-

Facrs 7o8 7H2 Laprea.—1 have ased my Wheeler & Wilson Sewing machine tor more than ten yesrs stesdy, dressmaking, from ten to fourteen bours a day. For the isst mineteen monthe I have used the same meedie, and am still waing 5t. My machine is in s good working order to day as when I first got it.

New York MAn Caa LINCOLN'S R E LI1OGIO N. THE INDEX. A Wes Pap Devt FREE RELIGION o TERNS. TEA ForSapte Copy Aae T, O enclomag fime

TH Inpr sonep every resuit we . T rocoines o r t o boleves i Tr. Frnaom. Progre. Ro Brothery Love The nsition rom Chrinity Fr Region througs which the c ow pe. whic ry , ous i e i com h t wnstion of the Rowan Empire from Pasnien Cr t nd ofer h p p 30 yr t hp A . be oow commc

The MA S PRI1NG RADE Cy or a

--- page 16 ---
240

CLAFLIN a co. (Mns. v. C. WOODAULL, Mas. T. C. CLAFLIN, BANKERS AND BROKERS, BROAD STREET, N. 7., Buy and sell Gold, Government Bonds and Securities Raf way, Mining and On Stocks snd Bends Bonds of any Stte, Oounty or Oity, and will make bersl avanoe ou same ; will make coflections on and issue certifiostes of deposit svaflable in all parts of the Unton. win prompty sttend to all Mafl or Telegraphic communicstions. Interest aliowed on dsnly a op CARo 8 A L V E

The important aiscovery of the Carbobe Acid, as cleansing, puritying. and besling agent, is one of the most remarkable results of modern medieal resesrch During the lste civil war it was extensively used in the hospitals, and was found to be not only s thorough asinfeotant, but 80 tne most wonderrul snd speedy Heal ing Romedy ever yet known. t1s mow presentd 1n com other soothing and bealing agencies. in the form of a SALVE; and, having been siready used in numberienes cases with most sstisictory and beneficial resuits. we have no besitstion in offermg it to the public as the most cortain, rapid, and effectanl remeds for al sore and uloers, o matior of how 1og maing, burD, wounds, and every abrasion of skin or fiesh. Soid by a arugsts. Price, 2 cents. JOHN F. BENRY. Sole Proprietor, 94 1y No. 8 College Place, New York.

A LT MAN Bros. & Co., S'xth Avenue. $1.25 yard. New Bisck and Siks, only yard Elegnt Sio0 of mew ATTHA ro Co.i ee Our sasb Ribbons are all now in Full ine, Gross Grain a1 75 and 88 ots. Riboons of ell other color A LTM AN Bros. & GCo., Su Avenoe Pioques al mew, m 9c., worth 40 Cts. Linen sor Suits 23 cis. worth 51 ot, Best make Aipaces at 47 ct worth 80 c A LT M A N Bros. & Co., Sixth Avenue. Towels, lige wize $2.00 on.Linen napins, damseh. only $1,00 s dosn. Woll Emown A L.TM AN Bros. & Co. Sixth Avenne. Full Linen DressGono. w r0. $8CheeneDres Goo0 A LMAN Bros & Co. Avenoe Sun Umbreltes from $1.00 A L.T W A Bros. & Co.. Sixth Avenue. Ladies mede up suits, Misses Walking Susts at A LT MA Go. A Gent go00 t bergin o oor. Gents and Boys Sear ane e ALTH Co., Ayenne All Good marked in ro. 1 ond 333 o Ave., bet. t r. —— —

wA L 1 O N., PIANOS, ORGANS, MELODEONS. MUIOA. MECANDI. ET WUmC oo om o STEINWAY PIANOS JRFFERFON NT. RLOONINGTON, 1..

AGENTS READ THIS w PAY aon A SALARY OfF wet r Mw

3h ersintin FARMERS AND MECHANIOS INSURANCE CONPANY

or NEW YORK. No. 200 BoAwA, PETwEE PULTOor A om CASH CAPITAL. $1325.000. $100,000 DEoTT wT T IAC DA o7 T S7.73 7o THE PROTHOTION o7THE PoLC Ho All the Offoers and Directors (without an exception are Stockbolders, and wil o00 care that the proper of toe Policy Holoers wi be made This Compeny manes a Cash Dividene to e Poliey Holders of 5354 0 50 per cont ech year in sovnoe, by meane of its iow rates of premiums. The safoty of the Policy Hoider is guarded. All New Yor Compsuies are obliged by the Ste o set aside the same Resorve. The Reserve for ench Compeny is the ssme. ciinton the me tale of iality, and t the same rate of interest consquently. all are sate CONDITIONS OF POLICY

This Company imposes no restrcion on travel aftor one annual payment bas been made. This Company ineures the ves of frmales This Company will not contest any legal cisim This will pay claims 5 soon s th.e proo thereor is esta The retes are lower than those of sny otber Compsny organized under the 1sws of Rew York. and responsible to the insurance Depertment for its safety The Farmers' and Mochanios will grant insurenor to suit on the tollowmg plens ORpAny LI7R. ow CanDRE ENDO. Conpourn InTRRR Jon ENDowH 10om PROOTR Jor LaF, Tew Livz. RETo PR A. and in 54438om 10 the sbove plans will iswe policies on the TONTINE MUTUAL," on CHEAP PLAN FOR WORKING wEN.

Tontine Muteal is Inuren En o e cis o poopie who bav ier e ararrd o the benests of Life insurance by its hesvy expenses. (See explanation below. To iosore vour 1e on the Tomtine Motnal Pisn you pay $15 onoe. You pey $2 sonually You psy $1.10 whenever death oors i your Cl You are certain to recerve $1.900 And f your Clses is full $5,000 Chae a7e reint y BOTH SKXES ADMITTED IN THE SAME CLASS ALL BAVE TO PASS A MEDICAL. EXAMINATION Clasnoe re imit 00 Momber WHENEVER A CLA CEFULL 17 WILL ALwAS yoL. The Compeny gus t oyonr aot shoald occur within a yesr, sithough there sre not one ounnd r in or i t o recerve $1,000 but in ca your Clsse has more then one thousand Membere, then you would receive y doliars as there are Meombers in your Clese at the tme of your e FIVE THOUSAND MEMBERS.

T $4,900 Clans A.Admits al, prtween the ages o 18 ame Ciase BAdmit all betwon the ane of 5 an 45 Ciane CAami 5 Detwn te age of 4 - TONTINE FUND At the same time that you booome imsure, you sise A MEMBER OF A TONTINE FUND Which may give to youre. wh , o mo This is the ow Ompny te 135,000, andha ponit SEND POR BOOK OF RATE. A1A DIRECTORS ARE, STOCKBOLE ALL OFTIC E MCMURDY, Pret ATA La w o, A Los . a Coniting A Omanpe 1. SrewanE, Counss

woa w. . Ro A o o

T Cop in te ft ig o o o 2,380 Poicie

2.380 Poicin ir .500,900 A4 . The Bomopsi Mutns Lite Inurne Compeny r o o Lower rui then sny other Kew 10r Compry

es lomes are a put opt of the proots of a I8 poiscin are all mon or p met No enr chg o trael Premtums an Dvideono WONEN INSURED AT S4ME RATES AS ME Aocw WaA send ior cireniars ane books

D. D.T. MARSHALL. Presient AMES COMRING, In. V Pre A HALSEY PLUNNER, Secromry STEWART L. WOODFORD. Con. E M. Eri09. M. D. Mesics! Examine

o E. B. Houwes. .D.. for Norters an Contrs New Bristo, Conn., Site Jon Ww Sexy Srn, Chog, ., $or O O., Boows Aaw, Bar, for Marin, We Virginis ane D. C

L. D.Ooon In., Sor Cto O., T .. Roowwa. Mry. m-2t W Us E A. A CONSTANTINE'S PERSIAN HELING OF PINE.TAR SOA a oe pA Co Besims or Pine Tar Soap, Pesentnd Mereh 1 19— ote Bwa e To. NU th So s q prr pioo . r . and silky and prevents it tron flling of. and e be 11 Conms Cosppes Banos. Pimpies. Sa Rhonm. r Ostsrib of the Bend. ape i Goor mavne Ros

Toe o. pri this city an ron ot e vty y et om t A .CONSTANTIN & 00. A R E NOVELTY KNIFE

NOvVEL TY KNIFE OoR LAT A T o i and many t pot 5 o . a O O 31 DAT

“4 )t XX 31 p AY $ 73 2 O . ri A —
