--- page 1 ---
he Revolution.

VOL. V.—NO. 14.

hr Hcnsutinn.

PUBLISHED WEEKLY, $3 A YEAR. NEW YORN OTTY SUBSORTBERS, $3.20

ELIZABETH CADY STANTON, Editor. PAULINA WRIGHT DAVIS, Cor. Editor SUSAN B. ANTHONY, Proprietor.

OF FICE, 49 EAST TWENTY THIRD ST, N. Y

Poctry. THE WINDOW JUST OVER THE STREET

I have nothing wweet to hope or remember. For the Spring o' th' year and of life bas flown "Tis the wildest night of the wild December. And dsrk in my spirit and dark in my chember 1 sit and list to the steps in the street. Going and coming, and coming snd goms. And the winds st my sbutter they blow and best "Tis the middle of night and tne clouds sre smowing And the winds sre bitterly besting and blowing. I list to the stops as they come and go, And list to the winds that are besting and blowing. And my heart sinks down so low, 90 Jow No step is stayed from me by the spowine, Nor stayed by the winds so bitterly blowing 1 think of the ships thst are ont at e. Of the wheels in th' cold, black waters turn ing Not one of the snips beareth mews to me. And my besd is sick, and my beart is yearninu. As I think of the wheels in th' blsch waters turning

Of the mother I think, by her sick baby's bed. Away in her cabin as 1oneome and daresry. And littte and low as the fisx breskors shod Of ner patience so sweet, and ber silence so weary. With cries of the bungry woll hid in the prairie. 1 think of a thinge in the world that wre wd Of chuldren in homesick and comfortiess pisces Ot prisons. of dungeons, of men thet are mad Of wioked, unwomsanly light in the faces Of women that fortune has wroaged with disraces 1 thimk of s dear little sun-lighted besd. That came where po band of us all coul deiver And craned with the cruciest pain went to bed Where the sheets were the toam tretted waves of the river Poor orn my e The footstop grow int and more frint in the mow 1 put back the curtain in very dewpeiring The masts orea amd gro s the wind come aa g And the light in the light-house all weirdly is Saring But what glory is this, o the gioom of despairing

1 0 at the window just over the stree t. A maid in the lamp-light her tove. let tor re dime. Ber red mouth m in, he And the beart in my bosom is cured of its bleedins. A1 100h on the midn her o e i he has fnished the hottr, wd fol ime , i And ae t And mow in the hearth e ory A vision of grace in the rosete giow. 1 e ber unbinding the braids of hor ren And mow as she stoops to the ribbon thet tn

And mow a she wtoope the ribon t —

NEW YORK, THURSDAY, APRIL. 7, 1870.

e pper. they t e o An o To mather them up ins fllet of lace And now she gone, bul m fancy trece The lvendered imen uporswn. e rouns r Hall sunk in the counterpane's broidered roses. Rovealing the exquimte outhine of form A willowy wonder of grace that reposes Beneth the white onr fey with rone e te Der Where the passionste dreams are so swest in ther sally The r httie ngrs they remble amd part As part to th warm waves the lesves of the hly. And they piay with her hand fike the waves with the 1ily

Io white fiey Sowers. the queen o' the fowers k What to ber is the world wih tts bed, bitter westher Wide she opens ber arms— ah. ber world is not ours P 3 no e t gether— o What to ber 1 our world, with $ts ciouds and roug?B westher b Harsmidoigtthe winds m he ee biow an best 1 drop own the curtain d say to my o Thank God for the window just ovor the street Thank God there is siways a light whence to borrow. When dsrkmess is Garhet. md Sorrow, most Sorro ALsc CAn (ntered sccording to Act of Congress, im e yeur 187, by Alioe Cary. in the Clork's Ofoe of the Dierict Court of the United Statos, for the Southrn District of ew York.)

The Born Thrall

BY ALICE CARY CwAPTER R1 THE MYSTERY

THE MYSTERY

SALLY RPLEy s matursl orbit wes bouse-keeping, and she revolved in it on the evening in question with wonderfal celerity and splendor Up went the sieeves, as by instine, and the broom-bandle im her hands seemed to spin round of itselt—the egge in the bowl beoame froth im a minute, and, the butter in ber pot asly ran Jike a whirlpool. The unsecustomed eye could bardly follow ber, as with a towel for an apron. she flew from cupboard to table, and from table to cellar, and out and in, and in and out, simging smatches of rude ballads, and talh me to berself. one of bes visitors, o some chalr post, a it bappened. By way of patronage she gove Theress the handile of the wying-pen to bold. while the pioces of bacon wers frying for supper. wd this bandle was ome t y long. nd the pan on the fire, it must have ombsrrned the free movements o mot young isdios, but to Sally it was rher an dvantage. heiping to show ber dexterity; and while Reohel wes yot making bor jonst, she turned the mest out into great di thet occupied the middle of the table—whked up the chair, and king a un orn from its place by the me of the cloon, stepped to the door and blew lusly for supper.

WHOLE NO. 118.

The sound of oarriage wheels being besrd t that moment, Rachbel looked from the window, and exclaimed that wwitors were oome from town. The knotty stick was thumped down before. Woman, what's town "cried Mr Ripley. And by siow degrees the daggers of bis ers drew themselves ont of the beart they had stabbed through and through

bed through and through. comp'ny'cries Sally—town or not, a body 's got to make s difference and she hastened to pull down her sieeves, and dsb back some of the tangles of ber beir. afer which sbe replaced the common with the best knives, filled two ssucers to overfiowing with preserved fruits and removed s dish of oold turnips. Sbe also brought fort from its ooncesiment on the upper shel of the cupoonrd Britsnnis teapot, which for seven years or more bad been Genominated the mew toapot, and which Mrs. Rapiey meer p o folks came visiting. Having emptied into t the contents of the old one, which wes seamed with black oracks, and checkered with tis boops thet held it together, she placed it on the bearth before the fire. and burried sway to weloome the visitors.—they were Mrs. Damiel Toplow. a she styled berwelt on ber oard, and ber on P Toplos—probsbly John or James Pitkin in e first place, but only Pitkin mow. We ar obliged to crave your hospitality for the might. myself snd Pitkin," says Mrs. Toplow, tonsing back ber wet ribbons, snd offering ber bend to Mr. Rapley, who by this time had taken his pinoe at the table. Her dress was qute too showy for its cost, and so unequally combined as to be.almost groterque, as if indeed one artiole bad been imported from Pans, and spother manufactured in ber owh basoment hiton. betw the Fontimg of the t. the aig o pastry. Her voo w hap d eyed p to high prioh by or o , eyos were sunken snd hed an eager look, and her manner was aggreve he bed born used to etbowing ber own way in the world. and had mot got on moh that The on wee shght, paleed young man. with By o bair. and bands as white s ile an ot only shght was he. bt pt og er h log festommot joim om hend to ot t womed firm. sured. or we Hs re was inbsrmonions Bke his mother's, wnd bore masks of ber bands in dentrous petohes wnd darns. Be wore s Btue ohip hat o one his head, ormemented with a bipe ribbon. ye low kid gh ves. much the worse tor wenr. a oo lar flumg down, and d wi i io nextonie ow apangied with stnds, andever pon rings on his imp bee Suger ia asite ansed aibes to ian eeotentiatime

His wits soemed rther t e woi than. efciomtty t beod. a be co y plind to his mothe in oi eipl When w i. —you know how w. o. like

--- page 2 ---
210

Mr. Ripley permitted his hand to be tanen, he did not offer it, and Mrs. Toplow certainly did all the shakmg. She and ber son Pitkin had been driving in the Cemetery thet sfternoon. Paps thought a drive there might revive her spirits, and she suffered unfortunstly. and unreasonably, from lownrss of spirits, she was sorry to say ; and the rain coming on, poor Pitkin in his endeavor to gain shelter, had run off a wheel, and so prevented the possibility of reaching home. “I wouldn't have run the wheel of," though. says Pitkin, addressing himself partly to Sally, partly to the table-clow, “if it had not been for that man in the gig—1I hate a gig, any bow." “But, Pity," says Mrs. Toplow, "these friends don't know sbout the man in the gig—you speak as if it were all understood.

“Well, you tell about it, motheryou saw how it was; just my luck, Miss Ripley!" So Mrs. Toplow to1d about the man in the g. and made it appear that "Pity" had been farly run down and over and so they sat down to supper, laughing little Charley and Theress on cither side of the stern old man, and the visitors from town nearest the preserved fruits, and the sweet-cakes. When the grace was said, which occupied five good minutes, Sally arose to fetch the tea. and to her consternation found the mew toapot a melted mass of ruin among the coals. She lifted up her hands and her voice, but what she would have safd, can mever be positively ascertained, as ber exclamation was cut short by a sigpificemt gesture which Mr. Ripley made with the butcher-knife, fixing ber with his eye.

It was not often that visitors from town were entertained at Mr. Ripley's, and the pleasing circumstance caused the round, sunburnt face of Moses to glow like a coal of fire, when it is blown upon by the wind, and he more than once expressed his genisl gladness and good will by kicking the legs of Charley under the table. Woman, why did you waste good bread by burning it?" says Mr. Ripley, holding s piece of the toast she bad boen at such pains to make before the eyes of Rachel She attempted an apology—her face for once reddening as if it would sct on fire the flimsyfrill of the cap, but he interposed with s thump of his great handled knife, and the dictation— “Next time, wait for orders!"

Speaking of toost, makes me think of a good story," says Pitkin, "you tell it, mother. Then by way of compensation to Rachel, he askod Mr. Riploy if he would spare him a bit of toast; it was browned just to bis taste Nothing, bowever, could long withstand the effect of the stern white faoe, grey might-cap, and grey eyes Mis. Toplow lost spirit, Pitkin, especially when be adcresed bimself to Sally, ewayed about hke a red m the wind, and the younger people seemed froren like flowers in the neighborhood of an ioeberg. It was relief when Mi. Ripley, hitohing back farther and mther upon two legs of his obair, got bimself onoe more into the chimney corner, when twitching his night-cap sbout his eyes. he affected sleep.

In the course of the evening Sally oalled on Rachel to bring some of the harvest apples from the cellar, but Bachel couldn't be found, and Mosen being deputed, returned presently boar ing a milk-pan heaped bigh with geldon sweet ings, and be dmed has aripping shirt sleeves at the fire, weported that it was dah piton, and raining bard. “And what de you think "be

says, “I mw s light wavering up the lame, as t somebody wes picking thei way, and osrrying s lantern. Tot, tut'" ecried Mr. Ripley. suddenly opeming his eyes—not even fools and women would go out on such nmight as this—iesve wuch stories to your mster Sally

Now. Sally, to the best of ber recollection had never seen s hght wavermg along the lane at might, as if some one were carrying s lsntern there, and could not therefore ave ever himted at such a circumstance, and all the sweet thoughts and fancies that, impelled by the smiles of Pitkin, had been settling toward her beart for the last half bour, were suddenly directed back to the old dark channels. Lesve such stones to ber, indeed! as if she had no charscter to maintain, and then to thimk Mr. Pitkin Toplow should have beard it At Pitkin's suggestion, a circle was formed round the pan of apples, and then be ssid, "mo. ther, let's have fortune telling, you know bow to do itand so saying. be seated himself by the side of Sally

Now you must each peel an apple, says Mrs. Torlow—and throw the peeling over your left shoulder bebind you, and it will form the first let ter of your sweethearts' name."All set eagerly to work, and the peetings flew over the sboulders in rapid succession. “Mine makes the letter S.," ones Pitkin, and then there was clapping of hands. and blushing on blushing on the part of Sally.

“And mine doesn't make anything," says Doreas. “Yes, it does, it makes C," eries Sally, and that stands for Court! Well, dear kmows. your 'er weloome to him "—and so she was, just then. Isracl, junior, and Moses were too bashful to enter with much spirit into the game, and Theress was too much preoccupied. By-snd-by she went to the window to see whether the rain were still falling. and ss, shielding ber eyes from the candle-light, she peered out into the dark, she ssw the wavering light which Moses had described, but this time it was moving toward the bouse instead of from it. She said nothing, but remained where sbe was and kept ber eyes upon the light. Nesrer and pearer it came—to the very gate, then she heard the latoh softly lifted, and saw by the glimmer of the lantern a woman come in, and stealthily feel her way slong the stepping stones. The light was put out at the door, and then footstep went softly along the entry and bp thestairs Could Rachel bave been sbroad im such s storm. and if so, what could have been her errand?

While she yet mused aud wondered. Rachel came in, all ber garments pest and ordertly, and with her babitusl quietude of manner. But the hatr was ll set in frinzes as if by the rain, giving s double border to ber pretty little cap. She did mot join in the circle about the apples—she was mot asked to join it, but seating bersell an obsoure corner, busied berselt with s past of woolen stockings for the master of the house If the jests reached ber. she did not smile, perhaps she dd not hear themShe might bave been the shadow on the wall. a forany intorest that was taken in ber

Charley, who was not much interested in the fortune-telling, woon foll asieep, and somobo Rachel was the first to porosive i. There is mioe tte bed in my room." whe whinpored to Theress, "would you mind bis sioaping in the No, of course. Theress would not mind 1 can oarry him." she says. and directly she got him in hes arms, and with his sioepy bead arop-

ping over one souider. sippes out of ig Theress thought ere wore rs i r she went swsy. but sbe wae mot quite ure. To Safly the time had pever fiown so fast. nd when Mr. Ripley arose and wound the clock a eyes. To lose sight of that fiany-goiden ba and that pale, wesk face. was to teke ot of f all the besuty and poetry. and losve hard dark and common plsce. Good night, and the sweetert, swortent dreams.says Pit. tking the bnd of ay in his limp, white fingers

On the instant. bare fort were beard pattering along the entry. and slmost immedistely the tremt. to0d eor them. w wi, ened eyes. Theresa. blusbing like a 7one, hnstened to gather bim up in her spron, snd aganst bis will tugged bim back mp stasrs, but as they approsched the door of the garret be began to writhe, scream, snd otberwise assert himrelf in a most unususl manner. He, by po means, would go into that room agsin, he would rather sieep m the barn, in the mill with the wery old devil, or even Uncle lereel himself, than go back.

The urgency of bis refussl ooupled with b socurtomed feariessmess, and the strange sounds beard within by Theress hersolt, induced ber to stop at the landing snd, if possible, pacity him before sttempting to foroe him any further, for he was evidently aresdfully frightened. It was some time before she conld gather amything satisfactory be would not go back, thet was all be would say, and not wuts he wes repestedly assured that be should not again be lef aione could smything furtber be elcited He did finally admit, bowever, thet hbe was afraid, and that he had beard s noise unlike anything be had ever before beard: thet it seemed in one corner of the gurret, and thet. going towards it, he saw two ghittoring cyes. and that he thon ran down stairs with all bas might

They listened t the 3o07 and bearing mothing Treswy persusded the boy—if she dad mot persuade hersclf—that it was only a est whioh he had seen and board. and assuming an wr of boidness she pushed e door open am wot talkimg in s loud key snd bolding the onle well forward. while be. pulling st ber ares came sfter her

The general spoct of thimgs would mot in bep pier circumstances. beve been pleang The walls were rough and ras ged. amd the dmgy ors ower bend apiked with p. upo who a grest waricty of o16 bata towner pet coatsalse bunches of berbs. knotsof yarn, and bage of sed. with bore ond thore wuch trophes of the chae ad l aer or the kim of r posing than a the . pe solitary peg the awe-inapiring rogalis which lsrnel Ripley bad worn in his younger anr when investnd with the honors of m p tain

About the room wer o wheet, el. wool. hoape of tow and fn. ro o14 1oom. wimeger n wh with other ugy . the dim cormers of the plaoe. were b etty visible p he od a r ty, the hand of 1n the firt place. t we a ro

--- page 3 ---
mt. as To nd as her nir, life ind

main room by mesns of curtsins hung against the rafters and descending to the floor. A pasch work counterpane, very curiously devised snd quilted, eovered the bed ; the pillow-slips were fringed with home-made isce, and the great oaken chest, wherein she kept the little finery of hergirlhood, and perhaps some trifling souvenir that mo eyes but her own ever saw, was covered with disper cloth of ber own wesving. white as snow, and upon this lay her Bible and Hymn Book, together with two or three religious books. evidently much read. There, too, was a pot of geraniums fresh and bright, a willow workbasket, a pin-cushion, and some few such toilet articles as are not ususlly to be found in garrets a rug ingeniously contrived and as thick and green as wood-moss covered the floor st the bed side, and elsewhere the boards were sooured white as could be.

est illy ing the ouhtasmd out he ert no he ael

As Theresa placed Charley in the trundle-bed she wondered why it was there : not for Sally surely. Who then ? All was so sweet and sooth ing within that little chamber that for a time she felt quite safe as she sat on the bed-side holding Charley's hend in hers and listening to the plashing of the rain on the low roof, but he was all the while on the alert. If the wind so much as shook the sash he would bob hs head up from the bed clothes, pull aside the curtain, and peering into the dim corners of the garret whisper his conviction that something was there, and that he could see its glitterimg eyes.

ais ds to im for

It was mot long before the noise which Theresa had previously beard was repeated, and almost immediately followed by a ory which seemed more like that of some dumb cresture in psin than the voice of a buman being. She had been timid and trembling 6ll now, but all at once found hersolf, if mot collected, t least merved up to the occasion, and taking the candle in her hand proceeded toward the corner of the room whence the cry had seemed to issue, while Charley, emboldened by her example, and perhaps a little ashamed, bounced out of bed and followed resolutely enough. O, chi'dren, children " cries Rachel, hurriedly entering the room, "come away ! come away! there's mothing there nothing at all" “Yes there is, and I mean to know what it is," answered Charley, still advancing.

“What shall I do? what will the Judge say?" cried Rachel, in real distress, and dropping helpless midway of the room. How conid 1 have been so thoughtiess as to bring you here but I 'was taken up with quite other things. Lord help us all"

Charley, stimulated by these despairing utterances, seized the candle and rushed on, clam. bering over wool sacks and pushing asde barrels, wheols. recls, and whatever olse impeded bis progress. O, Trey," be cnes, baving reachod the mystemous corner, “d nt1 tell you no— T've found it, come and see!" and as he spoke he passed the candle before the bars of a cage. not unlike the cages in which wild animals are commonly oarried sbouy the country for exbibi tion, thus vevealing a human being, stunted. i-haped, and with eyes dilated like those of hunted beast Whstever it i." cries Charley, sll passing the candle along the bars. it looks a good deal like Uncle Is'r1"

The poor wreature which wes squatting in the straw on hands and feet when first approached, mow 1tod tett ap and prociaimed tolt wo man. The sight of strangers seemed to onrage bor. and she at once fell to beating ber forehead

against the bars of her oage. snd to clutobing at them with ber long, bony fingers. While Rachel was yet futtering in avin e deavor to get ber chickens back benesth ber wings, Sally. who had overbesrd the unnsus disturbanoe, rushed m with a full explanstion.

She's my sister," she eries. "older 'n Is'r, and ber name's Jane Ripley, snd sbe's been that cage years and years, and I'm glad you've got a chanoe to see her with your own eyes. canse I was'nt lowed to penk of ber out house. She was bright 's I am, mother says. till she got frighte med into a fit, and that she never was like herself afterwards, and st last she went crazy outright, and all on account of the w'venty of— Sally! Sally!" interposed Rechel. On account of the s'verity of a man you don't know, and pever seen "says Sally, winking one eye. "But come long. Tressy, sh frd of everybody but Rachel and mother, come long!

S0 here was the secret all out, the mystery all explained, and Theress understood the meaning of looks and sighs, and balf suppressed exclamstions that bad been always so strange to her.

(To be confinued.) ————— AS YOU LIKE 11. TaE common propensity of the goverped is to inveigh against administrstion. In this way, and for mo other reason, 1 approach and ask admission to the over-crowded columns of Ths REvOLUTION.

Some thirteen years ago, Eliza Farnhsm. one of the early friendsof working, struggling women, and whose labors seem to have passed from memory, though that most thoughtful lifework, "Womsn and ber Ers," will supply idess for many followers, obtaining credit for the same as original, said to me, prophetioally, “The proposed enfranchisement and elevation of our sex is an ides that will never be suffered to retrograde, but will progress to s glomouns end." Now, light on any subject ss only to be evoked by discussion, and this is all we ask; let us resson calmly togetber, men and women; if you can conv.nee us of error, do so if the cause ooks different from our stand-point, consider it pabently and decade justiy but a ot wive u fippant jests. i-dinguied errility, or ing flsttery for reason and common sense.

Man has bid the substructure of climation. but wll his work i material and inteliectual there are other elements required to round our lives, characters, and institutions to a perfect whole nemely, spiritual and moral clevntion these, women were ordained to suppiy. those of our wes made by God, mot by soctety. 1 men, and one of the most pressing reasons for the electve franchise, in my esumation, is the surety that it will improve us all.

A wouisn receives impressions from ohiects and id wholly oret and, if encouraged. to anslyre n pre they are permested by warmth and purity. A man, for instance, secing a new invention, at once reverts to its money value. or perbape some alterations by which 1t might be improved and made beneficial to himeel, while woman pereeiven ome good to ere t the um r oom its sdoption. The march of intelloct is now elting men wio , sex alone is considered suffcient caune of wer-

211

vility. and the imtrouction of femsie i poblic hfe and a wider range is Gepreotod presence, or the want of t. constituted the . feremoe between virtne ond wes in Califorme n.d ot me o There w expressed then as to ber infiuone beg bene cisl and purifying. tis only in poltios thet such issue seems doubtful. or anywhere that it is pousible for ber to enrn more than bere pit tance by labor.

Wives and mothers, loving and devoted are stigmstized as termagants and shrewn. beosuse they demre to see Americsn fathers and busbands as just to matve born women as they are generous to shens. If it is but a trifie, this franchise, give it to us out of courtesy of vital impormoe, a we beneve, Jot us learn our mistake. At sny rte, the time for tomporiing has gone by this event camnot be set back it is the plow growth of years of thought. of oim. sober women, not earried sway through enthn masmengendered by brhant speeches from the plstform, as many declare. but the fruit of experience long pondered in quist hearts.

In these days when we take pothing on trost not even theologiosl dogmes, but everything i scrutimined with unfimchimg severity. it omot be boped that the oid tra datsons by which women were controlled mto silenoe, imduend by thrests of socinl otr ci i te q of i mooted, will avall how, nor osn they be swed into submismon by the authority of Peul declaring "Wives should submit to ther busbanin. for we honor our predecessors for refusing to submit to kingly rule, quite as stmotly omioined. while men of the present day quietly ignore the mjunction of the same mspired writer, as be msints on lsbor asa meceity and the pl direction to owe no man anything" oed by churcbes built on speculstion snd emsnopsted from debt by begging, religons shows, or orthodon gambling.

It is alleged, and truly. tha Chostinnity bes done much for the gemtier on. md e t undenisble, but the best. the steadient. the most self-sacrificing of the enrly comverts were women—iast at the crom frtt the g they wmever were tompted with handing the money even then And it was the robut ecaples and followers whe were bemetd y e mirsculons arangnt o fisbon. by the loves the still seek asduonily And fhey only were ured by visions of bomor or gen, et a pl and on the right and loft band wae. so thet the devotion was mot entels wabout bope of rewsrd

Havimg shlowed u capet in your oolamps. bherty of specoh w t need form opimions on matt onee on macred sbowe om rosch, and voting wonl mever from ber ewor Rows Bonbe hed h ee p would sti hewe pa p Nagh e p thet wo w we hope the trivolon. wh e eer much on y wuet. e he ol whioh t wl botter, fiounoes and portne, ad the aty

There will be an eodue ow W in te prime m petone P ous of kmowing he an of p t. of womenhood.

--- page 4 ---
212

THE NEW 1ES1AMENT WOMAN.

A yEw weeks since an srticle appesred in the New York Gbserver, entitied "The New Testament Woman," m which the many virtues of said woman, both possible and impossible, were cxpatiated upon, snd she was made out that perfect being whom man had so lovg sought for in vain smong women, who, sias sre buman like thomselves; instead of the angelic beimgr which their fancies fondly paint ber.

which their fancies fondly paint ber. Among many other dresdful things, womeno the present Cay were spoken of as wearing load of their own or somebody else's bair. Now, I bope for the credit of the sex that ther is mo more evil among them than this; for the bair be their own, and placed upon then heads by the Creator, it can be mo disg ce. an if artificial, as in meny imstances it is, still t is no worse than many equally ridiculous fash on adopted by the otber sex. There surel are faults enough of dress to correct m both of us; and I propose that the one faultiens in this respect, cast the first stone. My godly mother, who is an honored resident in our family, and who considers the New York Observer as next to the Bible, if mot a part of it, at least inspired, banded the paper triumpbantly scross the breakfast table, and pointing to the article in question, an looking at me over her glae, as if this was the uitimatum, smd, "There what do you think of that? Now ar2 you sat isfled what scrt of person a Bible woman sbould be?" Nol said I, emphstically. Why don't we heor something of the duties of man? Why don't some one write an srticle on The New Testsment Man?Is there such a being in existence ? If s0, trot him out by all means. Or has the raco become extinet ? Now, Iam nots Woman's Rights woman, in the common acceptation of the torm; but I have some rights and do not hesitate to use them, and whatever I can do well, 1 claim a right to do. I have so long heard about "woman's sphere" and "the duties of woman, that I say, by all mesns let us, for a change, hear something about the duties of man, and let the insignificant creature woman rest a little. It sorcly is bepesth the dignity of the lords of Creation, to be continally pointing out the duties of woman, and in the mext breath calling them "wesk vessels," ete. I their buttons are all sewed on right, their tockme darned, and their slippers and drensng gowns meekly laid upon their easy chsirs at might, in the name of common bumenity let them desist, orthey wil only help matters along in a way which it is mot their intention to do. And why do our leading journels, both rehgons and political, trouble themselves so muoh sbout he Women Suffrage movement, unless they are afreid it will be brought about? It swrely wil e and it is only a question of time. Alrendy the Neomems of Justice is on the ack, and slowty but surely, we shall rise to the level at loast of he long despined African race and then, in the words of bishop Loguen, we will remember

1 sometmes think whon rend articlen of apprebenmon in the public journals of the day, of wine saying which my dear father was fond of repesting, and mk r and if the indie will oue me fo the comparson 1 will use i. It is well satd thet the horse does ot know his srength for a4d he know . tond of being the doie aninal be i, there 1s mo what he might e i int his end t .And the pog 1 do mot by any means wish to condemn the

The Revolutisn.

clergy as a bocy. or their teschings in gemersl, but am s member of a Christan Church. and do mot intend to mdicule the ministry, yet cannot belp smiling, visily of oowrse, in church, when 1 bear remarks like the following. One Florenoe Nightingale is worth a dozen Susan B. Antbonys." and as a slight trbute to the usefulness of woman, I think it will appear in the hght of etepty. that the Marys and Marthes of the church bave sccomphshed more good than any other instrumentali. ty the chrstian ministry excepted. And why are the Marys and Marthss extolied thus? Because Mary meekly sat at the feet of the Master and "Marths was cumbered about much serving. Now as far as the Mary and Mar hs of Soripture were concerned, this was most lovay. but when gentlemen put themselves m the Master's place it is absurd. JosTrTIA.

P. 8. Since waiting the above. 1 am imformed by the New York Obserper that The New Testament Man"bved in the Garden of Eden. the pattern was lost when Adam left Faradibe but he in erpected to resppear shortly after the commencement of the millennium." May God speed the day. .

WOMAN AS A POWER,.

ThAT man is a sole power is an exploded ides It is as imposmble as mbuman to seperate the rights of man and woman tere is the sep arstion of sex and s sex's demands, pever o buman rights. A community of women with out men, or a community of men without wo mon would become orgenizations which it was not the design or tmten iomo God should emst on His footstool. No! the two genders form the ome human family, to dwell and work together, unti ancient time winds up bis clock for its last tickings, and the sun casts its final shadow over earth's dinl plate. Why bas the Great Creator mv. en to woman talents, gentus, intelleot, if it were mot to contradict the unreasonable declarations and weak srgumente of irascible man and popular prejudice? In the eye of the Maker. who can deny she is mot equal im the sobedule of divine interpositions and goverrment? God uses her to subserve His own ends and purpoe m the same manner as man, when His omuipotemce judges her to be His best tt His better power and in all specisl event tem ing forth from the bistorion page of the bumsn rece, we fail mot t find womn much of aotrens on the stage of life. 'as man is an actor the two are imeparabie and undivided— God finds one to f He uen the otber, whilst He besitaten mot to ue oth as H powerl age Man assumes the more arrogant pomtion to de clare he 1s the solus power. She can render to Omsar things which are Cmsars smeve po to vote to make Cmsar Emperor. Ber power and intelligence can be equally balsneed and proportioned as man. whom the Lors intended as a co-w orker m His harvest-field.

What a sham, what sbterg sta) 3 tht man bighe power emning Juect from God Take woman ss she stands forth from the pagee of Soripture1n the wery first event thet fcllowed crention. whe was the mtrumen tl power tht brougt donth into the world. Agsain, after the roll of ages. whe brings baokin the person of Holy Mary. the rovvi cation from win and wtormal hie the babe of the Vargin, mot the won o Joe, i the le Soo o t o. Fro e p hour of tomptatsen to the tg 3y of the orpes fixion, woman bas beon the implement which

hes mod the oeltin mry p rights commenond in the garden of Eden,— oradie ws worked by Dine qity p shment and in the futre promin of pardon parts of sny fects conoerning Hos first pair the one seorifioe was sufent for the relens of sll men and women. intimating the sure tor timony that Be is no respecter of unequsl rights or of divided justice. Has womsn no power When John the Baptist was bebended, it wass Herod's wile who wanctioned the drendfal deed On the trbie dny Fo w e H Priost. it was the apouse of Pilste who wared the Romish Governor not to orucifs the Innocent. It was the inst 1oo) of s loving Sevion thet was given to weeping woman—it was woman last r first at the grave,— was she who was the telegram to dispateh to dependent dsciples the gisd tdings, He rinen,and it was to ber Jesus gave His ifoence and blessing. i thus publicly sbowing ber His faith in ber own power. Ab' womsn. toy power is great, and perbaps yet undeveloped let not the Juggernaut osr of man's idol worsip of self prove thy ruin or thy defest! St. Paul found that Doross and Lydis were s power in his day. It was Pharsob's dsnghter who sved Moses. It wes Muiam who ssng the song of deliverance of lsrael's armies. It was Hannab who brought Samuel to El in the tempie. t was Bathsbebs who made David to sim. 1t was Jsel who smote Sisers—s Detilah shoared the locks from off the besd of Samson. 1 might write of Deborsh. of Ruth, of Rether, of Queen of Sheba, every one an active power to do God's will. Who were the hendn of Iarsel?1 answer in the words of Soripture—"Rache and Leab, who did build the bouse of Iwsel." t was womsn whom God bonors and man shames She is the grand agent thet fits man to be s man be cm er posi i epie fmcy, her demonstrative affection be discarde ber in manbood as impotent to defy ber to be hi qu powe—degr er to te poition. tool he lord an m thi ption of oee egal. she might lay smoe ber wopons of ae. enoe—

Act he pert .e i Da p Woman has shown she ba the power to orn and to govern well Who would aetbrone Queen Victori to sost hoontions Primeso Wales upon an Eng o of Fra bossts of Empror.—i Engoie. the Empress, who botds the bearts of the masmen and keops s tottoring Empire ow folling

Empires and monarchios pas o e w le of — the . or y e po W rend of Belen, Clo. we stand awed before Queen Ele we over the ot fr gret a Lady Jane Grey's wntmels mte— grieve over Maris Antoietg desthw gory Cntharime 11of Rowi and oWe ee e Ave pin ory. Woman's powss rose en y he Fo s o A oli prp porwonde ie aoouion the ioy Wostr boiperWasing mon's power hidden in Fvery acbeme. Co

--- page 5 ---
grens's vestibule fails mot to tell of ber power, wielded with woman's tact and woman's abulity, It was well sutbenticated in Lincoln's bour that it was Mrs. Lincoln who governed bebmd the chamber-soreen of the White House. Who now reigns in the bine-room? Who now wants palatial magnificenoe in an Americsn country's President's residence The power of woman is working out the great problem of woman—to carry it on to geometrical gradations—to the solution of a power never of failure, but of conquest. Better use the former power openly than covertly; to recerve the enviable name of possonsing capsbility of right, than be dishonored by its demisl. Womsn bas no intention of grasping power, for it is her birth-imheritance by the will of God; she is merely contending the slave question; shall s man only reign to supplant her on her own soil, and drive her away from her own innate natural power?

The burden of our sons Must be only ope, Ever to cortend against the wrons. P. L. GALLERY RESERVED FOR WOMEN. 1 AM not an advocate, nor even a convert, to the theory of "Womean Suffrage" but am to woman's sufferings. But good, eternal, must come from every docwine that is mobly, purely, earnestly advocated by noble, pure and earnest women. It is as true mow as in the time of Tertullian, that The frst truth, which it is nmocessary to beleve, 1 that we must believe nothing lightly

And with that mtchless guide, you have sbown where women can gain real homes, real strength, resl hopes, tor every work. The wedge is driven—the opening is made, and “Rest" found for the weary, waiting, toiling. tender, perbaps bopeless woman. For Rest is mot quitting The busy career Rest is the itt Of soi to its sphere. And, notwitbstanding the taunts of thought- 1os men, and silly women, you will prove, in noble lives and bappy bomes, that "Tis loving and servius The bighest and best Tis onward, unswervins, And that is true rest.

Grandly, besutitully the Capito stands out oraving and winning admirstion from every passer. The grass seemn always green. The sunlight sruggles for a spot to he under the great bremching trees. It bathes them in its warm. golden light. It whispers of light and comfort And it liew in great, wregular patobes everywhere The great buge stone steps give you welcome. ond tid you enter. You climb snd toll up You are s woman—perhaps are weskening, i not detorming the children that you are bewring and will bear for the mation. What matter that, you must l climb bgheThere in bo place on the floor"for you The gallery i good enough for women. Men smile at the iden. Long lounges are placed nenr the wall, but then long. leay men fill them. England bad ber denfor women—and Amerios bas her gal lery""You osn see there." Yes, but then the day bas pesaed when women are setisfied with sering. They mut he and know. They are workimg while men are lounging. The hurry, the contimonl talk, and the everlasting walking of the maton's Representatives make all but weeing impossible, save at s short dis tangoe.

Now, the question 1 wish to ash is this, Why

h nnmm Let men rage and foam. This is not s question of s “Woman's Rights Woman," but s question of bumanity. ?.

OLIVE LOGAN IN WASHINGTON

Taz followmg are only extracts of s letter omitting the socount of the lecture, which hae already been given at much length in the REvo- Lution. The subject was Gurls, Woman Soffrage. Congressman Rogers, Wyonsing Jury. DEA3 REVOLUTION Last night was s proud one for the "Girls. and 1or Miss Logen. Sbe gave vs s pien d lecture on the sbove topics Lincole Hall, our lerge, fine assombly hatl, wae orowed to overioing wi o most intelligen and euthiat people, among whom were many Congressmen and other off cials.

Mise Logan paid high n Geerv r t o moble women, Mrs Stanton. Miss Anthony. Mi Dic imson and otbers f. their brave and earnest advooacy of the rights of thetr ex an m a t gallan Rogers, the Arkanss meomber who so hameruy siandered the women in the departmenta, sbe thought if be got Susan about his ears be would think his Arken es climste frigid compared to the tempersture be wouls find sbout bim from ber soorching: in fact. Miss Logen hersell, in ber witty. sarcastic way, aimost rosstod e fellow alive. She boped be was in the sndienoe. for his own good, that he might learn and improve bis manners She made happy reierence to the women juries in Wyoming, and its omen.

Miss Logan was bonored by the largest and most rospectable sudience that has yet assembled st any of the course of popular and well sttended lectures during the season, and was very frequently interrupted with raptur ous and connued appisuse, and with that sympsthetic approval which showsd larger amount of aquiescemoe in her principles and clsims than mere entertmnments, or than is generally expected in this conservative comme nity. She gave much timely nd judis e young ladies who would sttatn useful and noble distine tion, and be the worthy dsugnters of this glorious age and country., Sbe spoke over an bour, without note or aesh from an ope pst or po o ning s litule late, by saying that she had to wast tor the gentiemen committee on the stage to f3 their back bair," which brougnt down the bouse with s prolonged ror. pa Another correspondent writes :

Ouve Logan's lecture lant evening was a grand ooon She sermed to take everybody by surprise. She rererred in most glowing terms to Mrs Stanton and Mise Anthony. and siso Anms Dickinson, and as Anne comes bere on the Sth of April. we have also anotber grest trest in reserve. o.

NEW YORK STATh SUFFRAGE ASSOCLA- TION LECTURES TRAw Tan second lecture of the State Womsan Suffrage coure was ivon in Sy , Marh 18 by Ofve Logen. tos large sd fashionsble andience.In the absence of the Presmdent, Mrs Gage introduced the speaker. The well-known Girlsneed no report. but its pecuniary rewuits to the Associstion lead me agan to urge the formation of lecture courses by sll Suffrage Associations over the country. In no other way can an Association as effotually help itself or press forward the retorm.

Amde from the money a successtul lecture brings into the troswury. the Associstion, under whose suspices it is given. brought directly before people's oyes. compelling them to ink wpon ohetLet evry Wome Suffrage Ansocition over the oountry. thon. t omoe poret t ge re met witeNot only t, ut i the course be done by womeon 1t will tesch them what they so much med— e business babits—two things to which women have pevg been traimed. No adage more trus

213

than thet straws show which wey the wind blows" STaw. No. 1.—A few days agos liel wit was tried in Syrscuse in which s married woman was the alleged sianderer, but in sooorscouple one, and h e e hnd.the band was sued. Be was proven guilty snd finet justly, t90, if we are governed in our views by that lsw which so far robs s married womsn of her personality as to teke from ber all control over the joint earnings of the marstel firm—over her own wiges—uniess she enters into some business outmde of her legitimste family cares.

The amount of fine imposed bas esoaped my mind, but the fact I wish to bring forward a. thet 1t was very matorially lessened by the ples of the detendant's lswyer, to the effect thet in the good days mear at hand one person would not be punisbed for the crimes of snother person. The jury couid pot fal to see that if the wife broke the lsw. the wife, and mot the busband. ought to sufter the penalty. Let us bope they also sew with equal clesrness that if wives are to be beld as pecunisrily amensbie to the law they must be given equs! control with the husband over the earnings of the maritsl firm.

Stasw, No. 2.—At the Chenango County Temperance Convention, beld the first of Janusry. a vote favoring Woman Suffage was taken with but one dissenting voice. At the mesting s year ago. the same motion received but four afirmetive votes, and was met by speeches of mdioule snd opposition. After the present year's vote the Vio-Presdent of the County Women Suff age Assoniation was cagerly spprosched. many inguries made for Tax REvoLmon, and she was chosen to prepare an essay to be resd st the pext county iodge. n

MISS ANTHONT AT DECATUR, IL. Miss Susas B. Axrony lectured to a lerge and select andience at Powers's Hall, in Deostur. on Tuesdsy evening. March 234. She was mtroduoed to the sudsenoe by Rev. Mr Burns of the Universs list Cburoh, who stated that ahe had visited the city by iito of tiemen, who proposed. sfter paying the lecturer one half the gross procepdn. to devote the remainder to the Ladwes Library Association

She lectured nesrly two bours uponWork. Wages and the Ballot." Her arguments wore powerful and convinomg. sns hor saronm cutting and efoe. ind y te i mg of those whose corms hed been roa upo The Editors of the city evidently mot f th they bed taen a dose of ooting rThe gave Miss Anthony sredit for wastng mo ime in saying pretty things. or lenguge onle inted to plosse. ber remr wore ion to be lie quinime, bitter to t t, t go for the disnane.

Near the loe othe A was sieoping in the hands of Senstor Trmbl. Chairman of the Judiry Committ of he Senste, and olind upon fhe udine for upon a reiton img T pt tht t t. The te i ive wa p w i the g bre ma Dootn s p W Suftrage. and i Miss Anthonys leturs do e

--- page 6 ---
214

more it effectuslly brings the subject before the people, for mo other topic is disoussed on the street, or in the parior to-day, but Womsn's Rights. The visits of Mrs. Stanton and Miss Anthony to Decatur bave done much to remove from the minds of our peopie a deep seated prejudice aguinst women as public speakers. The gross proceeds of the lecture smounted to $104.50, of which Miss A. accepted only $50. . Decatur, March 24th.

BUFFALO AND ERIE COUNTY.

Taz Buffalo Courier contains a report of the first semi-annual meeting of the Erie County Woman Sufirage Association, beld last week in that city. The meeting was called to order by the President, Miss E. K. Baker, and' safter the minutes of the previous meeting had boen read and approved, the Premdent delyvered one of the most interesting sddresses that bas emanated from a source o quiet and private, in a long time. Buffalo need hardly import advocates and champions for the woman cause with the like of Miss Baker constantly among them. Nor should she be willing to limit her sphere of operations to Buffalo, nor yet to Erie County. The truths she uttered in her address, should be beard all through western New York. Perbaps she does diverge far and wide, if not, she should. Sentiments like the following are not to be lost on her own single, city though Buffalo were bigger than Babylon

Foeling how just, how fraught with good to all humanity, will be the triumph of the cause in which we work, we enter upon our secon year with cheerful hearts and high bopes. Were our labors suspended to-day, we should feol that our organization had not existed in vam. But its permanency will be measured only by the fiying wheel of progress. We are enlisted for the whole war, and not till New York has followed the example of Wyoming oan we suspend our exertions. Meanwhile, how bas this ideas for which we stand combined, progressed in the great world about us?It has been a year of unusual activity. With such rapid strides has the movement gone on that it seoms impossible to keep pace with it One can scarcely take up s paper that does not re cord some achievemant of woman in avenues bitherto unexplored by ber, or perhaps some college bak repealed the ordinance by which its benefits were conferred upon men alone; or suf. rage has been yielded. Every pro ession is in a state of siege. As physicians, women are no longer a subject of wonder; many are becoming ministors, some lawyers. They bhave dared to enter Wall street, and the world generally is reconciling itself to this state of things as it aiways does to the inevitable. The most active wmeasuros have been taken throughout the Unitod States to secure the ballo. Two bs. tional associationsone having its headquarters in New York, the other in Boston, are in active oporstion. New Engiand i wide awake so are the groat west and the Pacifie coast. Conven.ionn everywhere. Wyoming has takeon the initistive in giving the baliot to woman. Utab has followed. Many of the state legisiatures havs given s hoaring to the subject The nationst convention, during its lst sting in Washington, received a most respectiul hearing before the district sommittoe of the House and Sonste while sking for suffrage for women in the district of Columbis. In some atates women sre voting upon educationsl mat-

ters, orving on bool committers, or boiding politioal offices. Bills are in the United States Senate and House asking for s Sixteenth Amendment. In England there has been grest activity, Women now vote in all municipel elections. The bill is in Partisment asking for the full franchise for women. England's profoundest thinker, John Stuart Mill. has pubhsbed his most valusble work upon the oondition of women past and present

On the continent. Prance and Germany sre moving in the same direction of reform. and the Emperor of Russia is regarding the ides with interest. It is as yet true that "whst men have gained by our professedly democratic institutions, women have lost." A question which is seeking soluton from the best minds of the age cannot be set aside with lsughter and soorn. The agitation begun in earnest some twenty years ago by a' mere handful has gaimed in power tll it coufronts us everywhere. It is in vain that the Todds, and Fuiltons and Bushmells raise their puny protest. Not an ob ection have thay brought forward that has not been entirely refuted. THE socnL EwHL.

In the face of the sttempts recently made in Ohio to legalize this most terrible phase of cur social life, and the exposure of the English laws (most hideous) relative to the same subject, I cannot understand how women can content themselves with simply building bomes for the victims of man's guilt, and not take active measures to produce a stste of society which shall render such benevolent institutions unnocessary. The cure of this great evil must come through woman. It is for her to create a public sentiment which shall draw its bues as closely about the lives of men ss they are now drawn sbout women. This public sentiment can be felt in all its power ouly when woman is the acknowledged equal, social and political, of mwan.

To still another way can women do service. by forwarding all the efforts which are being made to procure for women bonorable employment and independence, with adequate compensation for their labor. That philanthropy is the moblest, which, by creating opportunity removes temptation We all know what the early days of Californis and Austrahs were, while men e there alone. How quickly for the better everything was changed when women went there ?They did mot write books nor invent machimery, vet with them came. in a measure, order and de cency.

Call womanweakness, beauty,"a sen- Gment," by whatever fautastic name you plonse. with ber comes that subtie influence without which all is chaos. Man's bossted sttributes. his glorious powers, sink. into brutatity, tf he is 1of alone. What bas been made of thoe departments of life from which woman has been exciuded? What of politios? According to your own showing, a filthy poot. Dr. Busbrell in his book agninst Women's Suge. taos o casion to mention the very benefioial infiuences resulting from the education of the sexes to. gethor Will be, or any other porson, toll us at whet age this good infiuence of our e over the other conson 1 is good in the family, at i go i he oo be for blessing in every-department of life.

The whole sddress was worthy s place i those eolume 1 tho omgt pr At he clo of the Prosidents aar. Mi Boeman, advisory counse for the eighth ju dic

district, resd report, in which she showet that a vigorous canvas. of thet distriot, comprising eight counties. had been mode, and the following persons wers found and sappointed woe-presidents for thew respetive counties: Mrs. S. L. Cushing for Nisgms County Mm. E. E Cisrke, for Exie County Mrs. Amelis Wilerd for Alegany County Miss E. J. Pest, for Cettarsugus Counts Mrs. Lyman C. Howe, for Chautsnqus County

Through correspondence with these offoers. Miss Beeman sdds, I have been brought imto commumicstion with many esrnest a3voonte whose enoouraging words and acts heve contirbuted no small impetus to the csune pow meet mg with such eminent success. Many thronghout these connties have idenfied themsel ves with the work by sending in the fee and thew names for bership to the state associstion while names bave been sdded to the book of record, disproving the assertion of the opposers of the movement that the women do not want the ballot. Petitions from the varrous counties were sent up to Wasbmgton st the time of the iste convention, and one from Erie County slone with ower 700 signstures.

forrign Correspoundienct.

LTTE 1A Mawon. Marh. 1870. ONTHLY JOURNAL OF THE MANORETE FATIONA SOCIETY FOR WONAN'S SUFFRAGE.

1 FoRwARD you the first pumber of this publication. It is edited by Miss Beoker. the Secretary of the Society, who, i ber itroduotory Remarks, ofiers the right band of fenowsbip to every isolated worker in the osuse. After announcin that the second rending of the bil to Remove the Electoral Dissbilines of Women. now before Parhsment, is fixed for the fourt of May, the aitor points ot the impor o petitions, quotimg Mr. Disracl's aertion. when Chancellor of the Exchequer, thet. Opimions expressed in petstions hed grest ifinence on the judgment of the Bouse The Jowrnol will comtain record of the potitions presented. Sinoe the, opening of the present sesmon of Parhiament, ap to the 1 o Marh the mumber of petitions presented in favor of Womans Suffrage sixty. boaring 90.166 signatul. Bomdes recording the progres of the question in Parliment the Jowrn will give n ooount of metings nd lor turon. prospective potes of moting presmonsof opiion in Prment wd where, the aparit of the pross. correpomaenon. and original artcio avoog righte

MEET On Jonwary 1765 p meting w e Edinbungh, in twor of coni of land or hounes in the o gtThe was filled to overfiowing. conmarl po of the. i M of Pat belonging e Uner p C bied i the Gu. . F. W. Newmon give an are o e menty S On 4o F p

--- page 7 ---
held in the Athensum, Bristol, in support of the bill to Remove the Electoral Disabilities of Women. Mr. F. W. H. Myers, of Trimty College. Cambridge, Prof. . W. Newman, Prof. Sheldon Amos and others were among the speskers. On February 686h a largely sttended public meeting was held at Crowe, to consider and support Mr. Jacob Bright's bill for the purpose of extending the parhamentary franchise to Women houscholders. Rev. S. A. Steinthal and Miss Becker addressed the meeting. On February 8th Miss Taylour dellvered a lecture to a mumerously attended meeting at Newcastie-upon-Tyne. F.bruary 90h Miss Taylour addressed a meeting at South Shields. Petitions are being signed at these places.

February 17th. The Rev. A. F. Macdonald de. livered a lecture at Lincoln, which was well st tended.

February 25th. The Rev. A. F. Macdonald lec ured at Leicester. THESHEL. This is the title of a weekly paper which has just appeared under the editorship of the Rev. Dr. Hooppell. It is the journal of the Anfi- Contagious Diseases Act Association. As I have before alluded to this subject on more than one oocasion the opening paragraph of the address will explain to your readers the object of this publication:

Within the past few yoars a most sudscious sttempt at secret legistation, of a character most repugnant to the habits, feelings, and convictions of the British people, has boon made. Unknown to an overwhelming majori ty of the mation, unknown, there is reason to believe, to a great majority of the Members of Parliament themselves, bills have been brought into Parliament upon the closing days of sessions, and hurried rapidly through each House, as though they were Habeas Corpus Suspension Acts, which mdeed they have virtually been, and passed into law with scarcely a single word of debste. These Acts of Parliament deprive all women resident in the distriots to which they apply of all the safeguards of personsl liberty and unblemished character ; they subject those submitted to their operstion to indecent outrage or cruel imprisonmont; they lend the rotee tion of the law to sin, siming exclustvely and protessedly at rondering safe induigence in vicious plessures an they tax the virtuous and hardworking for this immors purpose.

Now that the attention of the country has been drawn to these acts, and that an organized resistance to this encronchment on our liberties bas beon imtiated, a chronicle of the progress of the movement is needed. Such a chronicle the Shield will be. The editor concludes his address thus And. while doing this. we shall wot omit to potice, from time to time. the labors of thowe who sre striving. by wiser methods, to diminisn in and to mitigete it ponaltien. Nor shall we forget tht thore are in other lands, long blighted by the terrible curse with which we are now threstoned. thone whe are striving to purge thetr country, and to asliver their countrywomen from thralaom beyond desoription, and to them onr earnest ympathiee will be oxtomand. Neod we 34. in conoi o t ry ton of women, in our own or i other lands, will beve ou ivoet y mp hy, , whenever practisie, o sarmest advorey

PROGRESS OF THE AGITATION Mrn. Geo. Butler, Hon. Seeretary of the Lediss Nationsl Association, informs os that she is mow in correspondence with two hundred and sixty-eight towns in the United Kingdom on

this question. A London Committes has been formed. Branch Committees st Bristol, Birmingbam, Manchester, Leeds, Nottingham, Edinburgh snd Doblin, are in action. I send you some of the addresses that have been irsued by these commrittees. The number of names sttached to the peti ions from seversl princips places will give you some ides of the work done

Aberdeen sent signatures from .900 women. Aberdeen sent signatures from 6.000 men Bradford sent signstures from 6,000 women. Bristol sent signstures from 9,000 men and women. Cambridge sent signstures from 2.000 men and women. Cork sent signatures from 1,008 men and women. Kendal sent signstures from 2, 480 men and women. Leeds sent signatures from 7,120 men and women. Liverpool sent signatores from 4.654 men and women. York sent signatures from 4,051 men and women. -

Above siaty petitions have already been presented, representing from 70,000 to 80,000 persons. On Monday evening last eighteen petitions were presented to Parliament on questions relating to women : eight for the repesl of the Contagious Diseases Acts ; six in favor of Woman Suffrage, and four in support of the Married Women's Property bill. PUBLIC MERTING OF LADIES IN MANCHESTER.

The ladies of Manchester snd surrounding towns have just beld a meeting in the Town Hall, on the subject of the unjust legislation perpetrated by the Contagious Diseases (Women) acts. Mrs. Hume-Rothery, daugbter of the late Josepp Hume, M. P.. presided, and opened the meeting with an sble and eloquent address, in which she said that the present was a crisis in the history of ous country which has bad no parallel since the Cromweltian ers. The Habeas Crpus Act has been suspended, so far a uuprotected women sre concerned, over large districts in England and Ireland, and we are threatened with a like injustice over the whole country. She regarded this as a crisis also in the moral life of our country. The sin and misery which we bave bitherto been too redy to ignore are mow brought to light. snd ber hope was that this agitation should not cease until women had done what they could, not merely to repeal these disgraceful laws. but to rescue their fallen sisters from degradation, and to seek and to save those that are not yet lost. She referred to the opening of employments tor women and otber needful reforms.

Mrs. Geo. Butiet then adreed the meeting Hor lecture was intensely and painfully inter esting; impregnable in facts and arguments. thrilling in flustration. and solemn in appest Details of the working of the act were given, and the evidene rom oertion of ai persons at home snd abrosd which was sdduce proved that the consequences of wuch logisaio were most disastrous to morality and totalty ineffectusl in cheoking diease The mowded meeting was hold in solomn stillness snd we while Mrs. Butler was apesking Resolutions condomnatory of the Contagion Disasos Acts, and deoiding on aetion opposition to thew were mowed and soconded by other-ledies, snd potitions to both Houss of Parlisment for the repost of the acts were

215

igned by the President on bebal of e t ing.A Mancheter Ditriot Branch Commit of the Ladies National Ansocistion wes formed to carry on the work im this locality. THE PROPERTY OF MARRTED WOMEN.

In s few days Mr. Russenl Gurney's bll To amend the iw wth repet to te Property o Married Women," is to be red a o the House of Commons. Thi l was pansed by a large majority last session in the Lower House, but the Lords postponed the compleon of the measureit hes. therefore, to o throug all its stages again this year. Its suooens bes been imperilied by a soond bll. itrod y Mr. Raikes, which is of s very questionsble charraster. The Marmed Women's Property Committoe has ciroulnted cevely mong . and others an exoellent article entitled. The Forfeitare of Property by Merried Women, by Arthur Hobhomse, Q. C., reprinted from the Fortightly Reiew, in explamation of the prinples of these two bills. From twenty to tharty petitions, bearing from two to three thoussnd signatures, have been presented to Parament m support of Mr. Russell Gurney's bill.

THE VICTORA DERATING SOCHET. At the lsst meeting of this society beld in Conduit, W. London, the Barl of Shaftesbury presided. and Dr. Drysoale read s paper on “Medicine as a Profession for Women."

Dr. Drywdsle, in opening hi suoct com gument arw om te prowm o o for any protession, snd beving rend lst of omt women to prove thet there wae no wamt of. inteirt power among them, be prooeeded to aes with the more mmedinte ueot of hi 0ar He lamon tt poblic schools phyiony we mot ut t t yo people of both ses. o tt incompiete so long ae 5t wes omittod In medicine ere was, be pointed out, s department for which women were epecislly ted—mamely., nmowitery. The firet Engtsh 1ady whe took a degree in mediine wae Wie Bischwell, in 3948, but he ad to Ar t she oould do so d in Engiend Mis Garrett t upon the practice of medicine in 1966. The locrer, closing his cbservsons. reterres the opposion which the protoor o me ry piaoed in the way of indies otiming dgr. preosend the bope thet public feeiing wouls soon bring about a change.

Miss Faithfull. Miss Garrett Dr Billing, Mr. Levy. Dr. Eamunds and Dr. Chapmen spoke in sucoession, and declared themselves to be favor of the s mission of Women to the Mod oal Profesmon. Mrs. Borsoe S. 3obn rco mended Female Meodion Studonts to be w with mo ball measures. but to windy the vory highest branohes of the profossion The debste was sdjourned and Mrs. R. Jobnston moved vote of thanks to the Chairman which cloed the proceedings. 1 remain very truly yours REnmoos Moon

Amnoas have good r t of de ls Fayotte, and one of t p sentatives doos homor to the one of MAny MAGA FA. Coubto o. wo maiden mame wes a ln Veigne. we born i 1632, and received an e L was tought her by Mepag? d Ft Rapi and in fhre monfhe e er knowiedge of st.1n 1655 she mer Count de ls Fagett. She wa hbit o with many. mon of ttont. sndwa mooh boloved. After wring muc o whe aed 1998.She e T Princess of Cio . and o mances which soninne to e Memr C 1689. ito g lore.

--- page 8 ---
216

ahe Hrnsiution.

PUBLISHED WEEKLY, $3 A YEAR NEWw YORE CrTY SUBSCHIPTIONS, $3.20.

ELIZABETH CADY STANTON, Editor. PAULINA WRIGHT DAVIS, Cor. Editor SUSAN B. ANTHONY, Proprietor.

OF FICE, 49 EAST TWENTY-THIRD ST., N,

NEW YORK. APRIL 7, 1870.

EDITORIAL CORRESPONDENCE.

WAnA, Indiare. DEAn REVOLUTION After sending my last letter from this plessant little town, I met a most intelligent audience in. the Methodist Church, snd was honored with calls from s large number of fair women and brave men, all slive on the question of Woman's Suffrage

E. S. Brenton, a young lawyer, is the moving spirit in the lyceum there. Over Crawfordsville, a dark cloud seems to hang in the shape of iron-bars across their college doors sgainst the daughters of the state. The twenty-three young ladies who applied and were rejected, are by no means in a bappy frame of mind. But as the president is a gentleman and a scholar, and honors the ladies who go to labor in that missionary field, with bis presence in the lyceum, and pives a patient hearing to all they have to say, no doubt in due time he will “open the

Here I met Lizzie Boynton, bright and gifted with both pen and tongue. Sbe is mow spesking in ber pative state on the Rights of Man." I rejoice that the much-abused sex has st last found a young and besutiful champion in the state of Indiana. The poor fellows might do well to invite her to plead their cause throughout the country. At Indianapobs I met a few of the faitbful Among others, the Rev. Henry Blanchard, formerly of Brookiyn, and had s chat with bim on free trade, one of the grest issnes of the hour. Indisnapolis can boast of broad, well paved streets, but its public buildmgs, its state house and executive mansion sre reslly a isgrace to that wealthy state Everybody spesks bighly of Gen. Beker. and his remarkably intelligent, fine looking wife.

Ex.Govornor Morton, now United States Souster, is strong in the sffections of the people for his faithfulmess and devotion during the war. I mever restized the trisls and suxioty that state endured during the wer, until 1 hstened to the details from actors in the seenes.1 was surprined to find thet in o many repect Indians bebind New York in ber legisistion on woman. There sbe cannot collect ber own wages, and, like the minor, cannot make ogn contract. Women, of Indians. awske, and soe thet your reprosentatives in the state and at Weshgon ere yo in rights of citizens

They say our champion, George WJulisn, will be obliged to make a hard fight for renomination and re-slection to Congress net winte If that i 5o, he bad better bring forwerd the Sixtonth Ambndament agsin this soion, ad thus rouse some enthusiam among the women of his state. These Republicans thus f have

The Resintin taken good oare to make all their moves so inte in the session that mo sotion could be take on their messures. Now, dearly beloved brethen. this will not do; the women begin to see throngh your moe little game. We warn you, s we have mary Umee and oft before, that you do mot take up this question mantully. the Democrsts will steal all your thunder. Look at Wyomins. what a Democratic legisisture bave done there., women voting, womsn on juries. etc., ete

March 14th, Peons, Hlincis Here I met our beroic proprietor, and found the people all on tip-toe, as to which party will teke up Womsn's Suffrage. As a grand county convention comes off bere this week. all the leading papers bave long snd ably-written editorials on the quesbon The west eschewimg that kind of twad dle im which our esstern journals abound. seems to be givimg itself to s serious conmderstion of all the moral and material bearimgs of the subject As Miss Anthony bas a long hst of appornt ments in one durection and I in another, to-morow we part.

E.. The above letter arrived all out of time, via Washington and the dead letter office, out of which it was rescued by s lady clerk, its bills paid it and sent on sts way again.

CONDITION OF THE FREEDMEN

TaEy have the ballot st last. If men. males, they have the ballot And now the strfe among ponticiars will be, bas for two years been, bow can we use them to subserve the imterests of our party? A few of ws, while defending their ntural, inslienable, inextimgmshable right to the ballot, both women and men, equaily with all other women snd men, have not been wholly blinded by inordinate party zeal to their pressing. perishing meed of some other things besdes. I made s httle tonr south last sutumn and reported what I ssw and beard, not in the cities, but on the plantations where the colored people mostly are and must remain, to enoountor such weal or woe as betides, with few to pity, mone or nesrly none, to save

And now Rachel Townsend, a benevolent Quaker lady, reports what is daily and mghtly and constantly seen in Washington. the capital of the country, with sll its bossted emblazonry of republicanim and region. Not the diml wamp plantations o theCarolins Sos Islands, nor the impenetrsble wilds of lower Louisiana and Texas, the onoe borrible beunt of the Logren of Slavery's reign. but Was ington, which presumed to reprosent the best. not the worst, forms of our christian and democratic civiation. Sbhe bay durimg the past winter mede three visits there and pow the Phdepis Post tt e foun the aged and sick freedmen in a most deplorsble condition, many of them in grent wuloring from fearul dinennes without uf ont clotng by day or might without beds. fire. or sitsble 1o0d mdeed, many withoul any food or fire. end if they wanted s phwician po one weemed willing to go to their wretohed hovels on tl. thing that human beings require to meke hom somtortable but there they had beon congre ated in lre broken door of 3d pis of or oe broken, oky oii ombers. Soarcely any of these poor, denpised onesare portect puysiosily. There are mny with bot one imb, ope ar. o wi bro b o arawn np with rheum m

to the ground from weskno i for want of 1904, two, ome man n4 one womn. with both limbs off, fom being fronn while in sisvery, with most of the direful sens to winch, umen beings are subet d sbocking sight dafly in the most popuion strtin WasbingtogAnd yot te peopie boast of the large mumber of churches anof thetr advanor in religion snd civiation. ju as they 6o in Philsdetphis and other citien. an woutdtink thew churoh ort suffering condition of the peopie of oolr o be sluded to n y of them. While aaily going the rounds. fter earing the e a ory religon, 1 found desth was meking its revagee among these outossts. by oold and starestion. some beimg found in old garrets or oeller, dend or dying sometimes s desd motber, with living infant beside ber, gnawing a orche tlay in the agomies of Genth three othey itle ones lyimg on s beap of rage in the garret. orying “"mother, we are cold. do warm we e us bread grve us bresd!but she besre them not; her eyes were cloned in death

The day before 1 loft Washington this le time. was a cold and wtormy asy. Sleet. spow. and rain falling continuslty. The good agent and myself spent it with the poor ones aown on the isiand, two or three miles below the oty. most of theni old amd mok. without food or fe to warm their benumbed fremes. They clung around our good agent, who hed o lomg wtohed over them, as if an angel from besven bed appe ared in thew midst, srengthoning them for the last confist.It was evidont only fow more ssnds were in the ginss of many of them. and afr being st bome a few aupn. 1 w - formed thirteen had gone to the spirit world

Mrs. Townsend says many of these poople re very intelligent and know much more the we are aware of, and she ot urpri h o many doubt amy ad al religion oing tie more then a faroe imposed on the wnsuspecting thst cannot be oarred out in prectice the lives of profesors betng cold and beartios. mot weeking for oyects of commisertion where kind hand oan be extona to int the bringing the down trodden up trom the degrads tion in to which they heve been plunged by the cupidity of the oovetous and crnel man ers. Not long before the last direru oimity of war Charies Summer was relly beton i unto desth by one of those chivairons gentie men for applymg the termbarbaronsto the omof t whe Charies Sumner now1 35 pot bober be indiferent to the d wnd hm co of th oring peoie p made in thewr eon y y ome the g condition es e lly y committ the t tret of Columbis. and vry h pi we comd

Mr Ton thounnd dor e wotd prty p auring the winter and fve hundred donr. and w r thie m w Gr certainly o in he arede in a o vry T ofen fye r o pian. and

--- page 9 ---
miserable hovels, with littie or mothing to cbeer their desolation or strengthen thew exhausted frames. Since her return to Philadelphia, Mrs. Townsend bas given a lecture there to "s crowded house in Mercantile Library Hall" in which, sccording to report of the Post of that city, she said:

Four months azo I found these people in this condition. 1I visited the President and to1d him of thew sof foringe, and eom0 not ppropri e tor the colored poor?"He repied that sn appropriation could be made for the poor of the district, but not for the colored poor; and be assured me tnst be wonld do all in his power for them; that be would give bis voice and infiuence, and I was satisfiod that was all that he could do. After visiting the members of Congress, we eventuslly sucoeeded in getting an sppropristion of $30,000 for the poor of the district, and will it be believed that only $500 of this amount went to the reltef of these poor wretohes. The money was desposi tod with the Secretary of Waz, and a cer atn class of men, 1 learn, received the balance.

Even when the five hundred dollars wers spent, it was well nigh useless, as the materials bought it, suob as meal, mest, otc., were simost with wortbless. The condition of these pecple is beyond desoription. Most of them are oid and sick; they bave no shelter, no food —fuel; and unless something is quickly done, desthe from starvation will quickly foliow. Indeed, I receved a letter this day, containing an account of ton desths, mostly from insuffcient food and clothing. And the most deplorable thing sbout aft tois ts that no one there seems to have notioed it. Every one is bent on his own business, and takes no notice of what is gotug on sround him. I talked to Senstors sbout it. They replied they mever noticed these people, and, what is more, they answered tnat they came to Washington to 1ook aftor thetr own business, and not to take care of Washington niggers or any other niggers.

My testimony as respects the oolored people at the south was coolly rejected by republican politicians because it detighted the democrats." Even Womsn's Rigbts Republicans, women, too, as well as men, endeavored thws to invalidate my testimony on so foolish and unworthy s ground. But such republican women will do well to remember that the ballot alone will not be broad enough to clothe them when they get it, nor substantial enough to feed them. As man cannot live by bread alone, so meither can woman by the ballot. Wendell Phillipe seems to be slmost the only Republican who bas any idea that the ballot will not bring millennial blessedness to the emancipsted slaves. and he is reprosched, veviled, ndiculed, everywhere, for his contiued zeal in their behalf. If Senator Sumner and the rest of them there in Washington cared mo more for these poor people before the Fifteenth Amendment wes ratified than Mrs. Townsend' shows, what will they do for them now?

Rachel Townsend spesks for Washington onty. 1 speak now, and spoke last sutumn, for the country. Let the country beware how it regards our testimony. . P.

Just AwARD.—A writer from Rookport, Mass., says Rev. G. H. Vibbert, who was sbut out of bis church by one of the trustees on account of bis proolwitien in favor of Woman Suffrage, was endored t the parih meeting by merly unanimous vote, and his saiary raised $300 He adds, a deep interest is folt here in the woman movement, and st the annusi town meot g toket was presented with a complete list of iadies' mames as candidates for the town offees.

Tas Congregstional oburch in Thomaston. Muine, has dooided that evory member, male and fomsle, in good standing, present at any business meeting, shall be entitied to vote.

hr Reintin WONING WOMEN

Faon whence came the Gertrudes of Wyoming? Since they bave been made voters and jurors and justces, some of the eatern papers have talked badly sbout them, representing them as "no better than they should be;" perhsps mot quite so good. The esrhiest Virgimia women, history or spocryphs says, were bought, many of them in England, in the very worst markets of Engiand, too. And worse yet, were paid for in tobacco And of such was the chivalry of Virginis. It is even denmied now, that a single drop of Pochabontal blood flows m the veins of one of the first famities, or second even, in the "Old Dominion. But where could the women of Wyoming bave been born and bred" For, while many papers hsve procisimed them as the meanest of their sen since they have been made voters, and just the class or type which. they further say. would vote in New York. while all decent women would stay at home, their own journals tell quite s different story sbout them. The Larsmie Senfinel reports them as below and Larsmis is the very place, it should be remembered. where the court was held into which women were first introduoed as jurors

And first, there are very few piaces which ere blesed with such a cless of women ss Leramie City. 1In proot of this aeertion we will call stton on to a tw rei f their lebors bere. We bave the fimest rooo hoe i the territory, and the ladies built i. We bave the most beautiful church edifice in the territory, and the ladsen :0 good share towards bunaimg, and the whole of the furnishing of i. We hsve another good and substan tial stone church, pretty well advanord in procese of construction to which they sranted and still are grantng materisl aid. We have an excollent oburch organ. the common property of the aifrent denominstions bere. and the 1adies bought it. The whole burden, lsbor and expense of the care of the poor and sick in thie oity. has been cheerfully undertaken snd fastnfully peformed by he 1. Tey ae n e mo thusiastic supporters of all those aocial and sraterns associstions calculsted to build and foster posce and good will among men. Our seversi Sabbath soboois bere, owe thetr very origin and exttence to he or and exertions of the ladies of Laram ie City

In paymg tis just tribute to the women of Lersmie, we do not aernct from the berality of the men, who bave always libersily responded when called upon, but who, busied with their own ocares and labors, have sladly turned these public smprovements over to the ladien, and most fasthrully bave they dincharged th ir trust. Second, there s mot, o ar a we kmow. ing le wo man in this city, who is an advocate of, or convert to, the docirine populsrly kpown ss Womsn's Rights We know that mot one of those who erved juror t our late torm of court belong to that class.

And tiraly, thee indi a ot t po and only socepted it with 4ifdonce and besitation, with doubts and misgivings. Very tew. i sny of thom, bad ever et a foot in courtroom, and they kne o thins whatever of the machinery of courts, and e ntriote compoted iy o ustioe i aminre. And they w kmowing in its aincarge they would be u Glosest crutiny, and the uricte i of proprit with the imowiedge thet notwith standimg thei irooe ey wo ions oharity than ordinary male jurien

Eouan Pay ros Eovs Woss.—Somebody to1d the Wyoming Trune tht the girts tht the typetig o T Ro ol paid two-thirds the amount which men receive on other wekly papers. And the T why it 4.7Several mes it bas been told thet Tws RavoLOon is printed on contrt, and weither editor or propritor bas saything to do shout it, except to pay the contrector who, by the way, 3oe ot eploy e tprosent, ut whg be p peid men.

o1

Lis Luans Enosrron.—Somebow., e brooms 4o not always sweep ciean. Eviseny Mins Edgarion bos poused the wrong e of The Coming Womsn." Her lcture t Cooper Institute last Fridsy evening was not o popiar. o wel aom , o e would have been bad it advoosted, instend of opposing the Sufrage guestion. And would have been far wiser. quetion of poliey. pot to have procismed berself the open opponent of that now world-wide reform. as Ms Edgerton did, or some of ber over-elous frens for ber. That sbe is sbie and besutsl is doubtie true. That ber leoture will do good to the very osse she oppo. i. he m . i r, and will probably samit. Her pot very generous por yet graceful girds at some of her seniors on the plstiorm who wod down, with bicody seet sometimes, the thorns that opoe beset the path way of woman up to t were better omitted. She would do well to rememb, or to learn that every argument sbe wses or can um agwinst Woman Sofrage used with grester fore agaimst woman's lecturing st all not thirty yeors ago. And one other thing Miss Edgarton bardly meed be told that far older (perbape mot abler) women, snd men as well, have tried then band against woman's right of suffrage, but surely in no osse with any bonorsble or oreditsble success to themselves. And for the same Tenon s alway m o1d ttempt to defend outh eru slvery agninst the attacks of the abolitonists, it is the wrong sde—the side of mjustioe —and so does not, cwmnot. possibly admit o success . 9.

THE FIFIEENTH AMENDNENT.

7 is t last a part of the fundsmentsl lsw and the colored mate citimen is the equal of the white. In conmection with the prociamstion of the State Depertment. the Presdent iswned the fol lowing Message. which refiects more oredit on both the besrt and bead of him than any paper he has ever before put forth. 1t will be observed that he dwells much and ecarpestly on the importance of Eduostion eennl the boon of the ballot any resl bemet. The women of the country bave st lenst the comiort well as con o tht whe they om to the Franchise, no such exbortatson to them will be periiment or proper uniess the mate popolation shall be at that time elwated to tr higber renge than it bolds at prosent. But to our Message To the Senate and House of Representative

It is wnusnal to motry the two Houses of Con grew by message of the promulgaton. by proclamstion of the Secretsry of State. of the re fiostion of a Constitutionsl Amondment In view, however, of the wast impormoe of e Fifteenth Amendment of the Conston, th day declared s part of that reored 1 deem departure from the nu co tifiable. A mossure which makes a one on milons of people voters, whe were bore aeclared by the highest trpunal i the citimons of the Unites Neston. mor elgible to of the Decisrtion o In p wes fixed and universsl—in the civine por om of te morsls a well ns in polsostbi me had me right w we reapect, ino pora o from the foundeon of ou free govrment the present time. Insututons ihe o

--- page 10 ---
218

which all power is derived directly from the people, must depend mainly upon their imtelgence, patriotism, and mdu try. 1 osll the attention, therefore, of the newly-enfranchined race to the importance of their striving in every honorable manner, to make themselves worthy of their mew privilege. To the race more favored beretofore by our laws, I would ssy, withhold no legal privilege of advancement to the mew citizen. The framers of our Constitation firmly believed that a republican form of govermment could not endure without intelligence and education generally diffused among the people. The Father of his Country in his farewell address, uses this language:Promote, then, as a matter of primary importance, institutions for the general diffusion of knowledge. In proportion as the structure of the government gives force to public opimion, it is essential that public opinion should be enlightened. In his first anmunl Message to Congress the same views were forcibly presented, and are again urged in his eighth Message.

I repeat, that the adoption of the Fifteenth Amendment to the Constitution completes the greatest civil change, and constitutes the most important event that has oocurred since the mation came into life, The change will be beneficial in proportion to the beed that is given to the urgent recommendations of Washington. If these recommendations were importsnt then. with a population of but a few millions, how much more important now, with a population of forty millions, and increasing in a rapid ratio!I would therefore call upon Congress to take all the mesns within their constitutional power to promote and encourage popular edu.- cation throughout the country, and upon the people everywhere to see to it that all who possess and exercise political rights shall have the opportunity to acquire the knowledge which will make their share in the government a blessing and not a danger. By such means only can the benefits contemplated by this amendment to the Constitution be secured.

U. S. GRAwT. Executive Mansion, March 39, 1870. HaAMGuTON FIsH, Secretary of State of the United States.

RipICULOUs PRoPOSTTION.—The little Globe and Press of this city, than which no paper bas clearer vision towards Woman's Kights, wrongs nd responsiilies, or uen it to better pur pose, says Before Miss Kate Putnam, daughter of our publisher, entered the dissecting-room at Paris, the Profeswor told her that leave wes granted with the understanding thet sbe would wear men's clothes? Miss P. did not care to adopt such a disguise. She watohed her opportunity, waylaying the Professor on his way to the lecture.room, and argued ber case shrewdly. He told her that the case in which iadies had entored his rooms bad been in male attire, and be thought it indispensible. But with sdroitness and wit she pointed to be e igre, sravely asked him how she could cheat anybody into the belief of her masculine character ? the dinguise would only make her sex more conapiouous. The Protessor was plossed with her earmestness, yielded the point, and gave the coveted entrance without conditions.

Da ANNa MANRING, a well-known physician of the city of Norwich, Conn., graduste of the Neow York Medioal College, bas removed to New York. She sunceeds to the practice of the lnte

The Rrrsintin A

1o the Amerioan People, Greeting

1 Ax commissioned to procure the name and address of every person in the United States who takes a friendly mterest in W msn's Enfranchisement. In order to compile this roll of honor, I bereby request every such person, immedistely on readimg this announoem pt, without waiting long enongh to forge or to meglet it, to take pen and mk, write the mame and address legibly, and forward the same to me by mail, postage psad—s trifiimg ofst which you will not begrudge to a good cause. Anybody sending in one envelope all the names in a family, village. or sssociation, will render a helpful service. Three thousand Amencan mewspapers will oblige a brother editor by printing this card im their columns. The purpose of this registration is to know to whom to send important documents. Frends of the cause are urged to respond so mmultsp eously that their shall fly hither like a snowstorm. Sign at onoe. And the day will come when your children and children's children will be proud of the record.

Fraternally

ThEoDORE THLTON,

Fraternally. TaEopoRs Tr.TON, Editor of Th Independent. Box 2787. New York City. Before tnis card had been three days before the public, the returns did begin "to fiy like a smow-storm, in the direction desired. And are fiying stll. Let them keep flying. . ———————————— JURY WOMEAN. — Taz Larame (Wyoming) Sentinel thus reports on the first trisl of women in the jury-box

If we should nmegiect to ive some 13ea of the results of our trisl of the femye jury experiment, the outside world should say we were atrsid or sshamed of i. For our own part, we are inclined to admst thet t suconede beyond all our expectations, and what is more, beyond our descres. Having labored slmost sione and unsided to secure the passage of the iaw lsst winter—bsving used our bost endesvors to bave the ofoers bere carry the law into effect by arawing and summoning female jurors—and then baving exerted all our infiuenoe to in duce (be ladies bere to overcome their matural amaenee and consent to serve in that capacity, snd to se mowld public opinion a that the experiment might be mTly and umpartia lly tried—we maturally wisbed it to eo St we soarcely wished st to demonstrate s thoony that women were betier quslified tor these duties than meon Henoe, when Chiet Justior Howe wid. in gte years experience I never had as fair, candid. impertin and sbile a jury in Court, ss in this torm in Albany County," snd when Associate Justice Kingmen waid. for twents e y i e o with me, both on the bench and st the bar, how we are to present jury trisls trom dogemerating mto pertoct fare urieg, romne r Ay Co to point the remedy and demonstrste e cure for thi threstened evil," we confoss to baving been more than atisod with the result. Put it may be fely te the unanimous verdict of bench. bar and pube opiion that the female jurors of Atbany County 438 well ans T y , o to emsoives and to the setisfection of the publie

RMs. Va Oor—The Met e and bishops sre grestly exercised about the proper position in the ohurch of this exeeliont woman. Judging from the wonderfal suocess which everywhere atton ds her ministori it would seem that the Divine Spirst has no such difmonlty orn brobe of the Leoginte To have pased rontion f Wom S amendment to the Sute Constitntion Now t mut be ged t y pet ued by the people i 187 efore e of effoct

ANNIVERSARY oF TH2 NATIONAL WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE A880. CLATTON.

Ta Associaton will hold its reguisr snne meeting m Coorze InerrrrT New York. on Tuesdsy the 10th of May, next begiuming at ton o' clock a. m.. snd contmung, probably, through Wedne dsy and Thursdsy. The warious Womsn Suffrage Associtions throughout ths country, and the O1 World, are invated to send delegntes to this Convention prepared to report the progress of our movement in thew respective looshties. And. in order that thus annosl meoting may be the expression of the whole people we furtheor sk every frmend of Womsn Suffrage to cousider himself or beshelt personafly invited to sttond and take part in its di scussions.

With the pobtion rights of women secured in the Territomes of Utah and Wyoming—with the agitstion of the question in the various State Leogisiatures. with the proposion to srike the word “male" srom the state consutution of Vermont—with New York. New Engisnd and the great West well orgamined. we are confident that our Jeading polstionl parties will soon soe that their ows imterest and the haghest imterent of the country require them to recogmine our clsim.

The Executive Committee recommend the triends of Women's Suffrage. everywhers, to concentrate their efiorts upon the work of curing s Sixteenth Amondment to the Pedorn Constitution that shall prohibst any state from disfranchising any of its citisens on socount of sex. Thergfore, we ask the dolegntes and friends to come to this May Auniverssry with practical suggotions to how this wor wh be done.

The following are smong the apeskers airesdy secured for the ooomon Elsbeth Cady Stn ton. Rev. Otympis Brown. Ot E. H. Beywood and Jenmie Collins. Mass.. M. Adele Haziitt, Mich. Mrs. Framoes Minor and Phobe Coznens, Mo.. Hon. Bepry B. Stanton Judge Barlow, Cannestots Josephine 8. Grifing. Rev. Phobe A. Hanaford, Lizze M.Boynion, Mand D. Molson snd Spen B. Anthons The names of other distinguisbed wpeskers will be announced as fast a their amwr Communics tions snd controns for t meeting should be addrensed to the Corre ponmg Seoretery ELIZARETH CADY STANTON. Pres. CRARorT B. Waon. Cor Sec. 151 East 51t wret. Now Vork ExnrsriNe L. Rosn. Ch'n Ea Com

Womas WaAn— woman otes e fight.So men seupidly ay. but the Maine cortainly oupht to vote M Retey Rey nold, wao poon. p twe sonsin sw and one pr dne wt h war and were 31 op one lame aon ta betp het

As an opent p ing. t od Leswit, iano K. De. Dio Lewi in Boson May they pro i t sbundenly.

--- page 11 ---
Oun LEoTURERS AT 7M2 WEST.—Just as we o to press lotters and papers arrive with intering nocounts of Mrs. Stanton snd Miss Anthony. They are both in clovorfields of calls, and their lectures cmid not be more successful in awakening public interest. Miss Anthony has had another public discussion, and appears to bave again won the day. Asif she could do anything clse! It was at Mendota, Illimois, and the Bulietin from there, says Miss Anthony's lecture drew out s large and critical audience—and we congratulate the "Woman Suffragists"of Mendots on the evident intorest that is taken in the movement in this city. Miss Anthony, as a lecturer, did not manifest the fire and vim that was export ed by the audience, many of whom snticipsted a soo1ding harangue made up of sharp invective snd sosthing denunciations of the "tyrant man." On the contrary, her effort was clear, cool, logical and dispass ionate.

Mr. Wilcox, the opponent, took issue on the proposition that the ballot protected wages; he asserted that capital governed labor irrespective of franchise, and argued at some length but the audience did not relish his logic and interrupted him (as is said) with much hiss-terical demonstration. Miss Anthony came to his rescue and the debate terminated quietly, Miss Anthony bearing off the honors.

CaALrons.—The San Francisco Pioneer is excellent at reporting progress, and has a good deal to do in that line, simoe the state Convention there last January. No state, Massachusetts and New York excepted, seems so well suppited with lecturers and speakers for Woman Suffrage, and nons are more earnestly at work than they, and none could, or need work to belter purpose. And there is one woman, a Mrs. Fields , who has undertaken the other side, but so far as appears, without any disastrous result to the cause. A letter in the Pioncer of the 26th March describes one of her meetings on this wise

The eveuing was besutiful. The fall-orbed moon. sonding forth ber briant ray, made the mit o as light as, and far more romantically beautiful than the dsy. The court-house was brillisntly lighted; mumerous extrs seats had been procured for the occss ion, and all the surroondings argued s success unprecedented in Woodiand. At an early hour, the omnibus trom Capital Hotel oonveyed Mrs. Fields and Mr. Johnson, her traveling companion, to the court-house, and st s late hour conveyed them back again. They were he only persone (oxoept the jauitor) whe wsted the lectre room Aat night. Mrs. Fielde had lectured here one week be fore, but the people being dull of apprebension. fafled to appreciate her talent, or disapproved of the cause in which she is engaged.

WhEnE 1 JuNo ?—A writer in the Sants Barbara Press asks where are Juno (who used to write wo well in your paper) and her sister Susan B? The editors of Tx REvoLTION have askod the same question about Juno. And the brave school teachers who so distinguished thempelves im woman's cause at the Sants Bar bars celebration last fourth of July, where are they? Readers of Tus REvoLumIoN know the whereabouts of Susan B.," but where are Juno and the High School teachers?

AMUSINOLY INCONT The hvening Mail of 1ast. Friday said MrPillsbury hes received Mr. Tilton's Olve Branch. tooking towsrd the nin e iferent factions of the womsn cause. snd m an smusingly i consistont sroin, gors inte" him in TH REvoL o foltow Truth and justion, mot consistency, were the intomded virtue of the artiole in question. Will the Mail impesch it on that ground

ae Rrrsintin

TaE Wyoming South Pass News furmiches the following sketch of the first Woman Jussioe of the Pence ever appointed in the westorn hemisphere

Mrs. Esther Morris was boin August sth, 1812, in the town of Spencer, Tiogs county, New York. Sbe is one of the descendants of the esrly pioneers of Americs ber ancestors, on both sides. sharing in the strugmie for Americen Independence. Her fatber. Daniel MeQuiges in politics, belonged t the achool of Jeferson Her mother, Chariots Hobart, believed im the doctrime of guardian spirits, as taught by Swodembors. Esther was one of eleven children, and st the age of twelve years. became an orpban. At that ume the sphere of labor was umited for both man and woman. The men cleared the land and cultivated the sofl. the women prepsred the food and manufactured the cloth for the tamily; taflors went from bouse to bouse, to cut the garments for the men, snd the women mads them. 1In ume, a commerce sprang up, the principal export bems pine lumber. in which business ber brothers ongased, while she st the same time bought goods and manufscturd mem for women in the village of Owego, on the Susquebsnns river, at the bome of ber grand parents. In 1840 she bocame acquainted with Mr. Artemss Sck. then redent engineer on the New York and Erie Rafirosd, between Elmirs and Binghampton, and was married io December, 1841. Mr. Siack died in sbout eighteen months, leaving her one son, and s tract of land on the Iino Central Railroad, where be bad been engaged as a civil engineer in the spring of 1843. She moved to Chicago and remained untd spring. when sbe went to Peru, La Salle County. In the winter of 1845 she was married to Mr. Jobn Morris, who was engaged in the mercantile business. She contioued in business unt he became the mother of a pair of twins. sfter which she built s homs in which she resided for mxteen years caring for her fam ily, and belping and encouraging the reforms of the day, unts ciroumstances made it neces sary for a change. In the sprimg of 1868, ber busband and eldest son came to Somth Pass, and in 1869 she fol lowed them, and is wow living with ber husbend and three sons. In ber labors she bas been the equal of man, and bas felt the imjustice of her position, and the unequsl opportunities of women; snd while she advooates the elevation of woman, she does mot wish the downal of man. Sbe says we must be as froe and intelligent a men in order to be their companmions. Sbe belleves

That woman's cause is man's they rise or sink Together, dwarfed or godbke, bond or free - - - - If she be small. slight matured, miserable, How should men grow And would sid to Clesr away the parasitic forms That seem to keep her up bot drag her aown— And lesve ber space to burgeon out of all Within her——

Tax Riows SPrwrr.—When the people of the south cherish towards the colored populstion once their siaves, the spirit of Gov. Aleorn of Missispp. a spoken in his Inaugural Addre. reconstruction will be easy and there will be no more “military pecessity there peither The following i a specimen

The frst duty of s wise and psterns! government is to protect the wesk againet the trong From me. i avu y. t co or p reason to 1908 for s profound snuisty for the resiinion of ther mew rights1n the e of o have soparsted them from me as the wronged irom the wronr y ore me o the gusraiansbip of their meow and precious hopes in trontuine whose vory mention irs my morve wi emotion In response to that wouohing relanes. the most profound snnty with which nt my ofe Governo o te t i man the q. etore the t equs, not in desd inttes, but in living fact

Miss ALcor. utho o Lite Women, O Fashioned Gil, and other works, sailed lat Se. trday from Boston or Brest. ocompenied y her artist sister, Miss . May Aleott

219

COMMENCEMENT OF THE WONENS MEDICAL COLLEGE.

Taz annusl commenooment exercines of the Women's Modies! College of the New Yor Infirmary was beld last Saturday evening, in the ball of the Young Men's Christisn Associstion. Samuel Willotts, Eeq., Prosident of the Bosrd of Directors, presided ower the exercien, which were opened with prayer by Rev. Dr Bepworth. The degree of "Doctor of Medicine was then conferred on Miss Ehzs B. Phelps. of lowa, and certificates of having passed through the mecessary oourse of studses were swarded t. the following named voung indiel. who win be gradusted in June mext Celestis A Lomng. of Massechusetts Lanrs Morgen, of New York Emms C. Ward, of New Jersey Ellen E. Mitchell, of fennsylvama.

After a few remarks by President Willetts, the class were sddressed i6 very bappy and encouraging manner by Mass Emily Bisckwell, M. D.. one of the Professors of the institution. Sbhe reminded them that they ectered on the duties of ther profession with the sympathies of the public in their vor. but tht they must not in consequence lessen thew labors and investigaons after sbsolute truth mm medical science. Dr. McCready, one of the Board of Examaners. aunounced to the andi enoe that the gradustes dsplayed on examinstion, more praction knowledge of the theory of medisine than generally observable among male students who are ersduated at medioal colleges. This announcement was recerved with lond spplause.

Sbort addresses were then made by Rev. Dr. Heopworth and by Dr. Hayes, of Arctic Ooon fame, sfuer which the waledictory was delivered by Miss Laurs Morgan. of the graduating cles. with which the exercises were closed. The night was fesrfully stormy and disagroesble but that dd mot prevent s large sttondance on the exercises of the interesting ocoasion.

ConsmNT oF TH2 GovERNED.—A poor woman was arrested in this city last week. by an internal revenue officer and dragged to court. andbeld in $9,000 ba—AD trict- Attorney Purdy ssking to have the ba incrensed to $5,000 as the offence. in bis opinion, was very serious one. The prsoner. it is toid. wa poorly cld. p be suffering from consumption. The deputy mershall who arrested the woman. stated thet she only bad a few cigars in the bouse, and thev were in an old band-box. and that she and be family of small chuldren were hving in poverty The prisoner was subsequently slowed togo on promise that she would sppess before the Comminsioner when wanted Waes Bunke Hill the result of auy such tantion without representstionas that"

Tas Pracn Conrmanon.—At mesting of the Executive Commitiee of the Nations! Wo. man Suffge Assooiion. the Womnn Mr. Wilon. of New York Mrs Josephine S. Goifing, o Washing ton (with Mrs. Abby Hoppe Gibbons. bes sub utote) w P Py. wer represont the Ansoition e A Hotel Conf erence

Wonss DavossOos Bln. M. nd Mrs Amolis A Jomo heve opene e nd very extonive Drug Store Cir Obiongo.

--- page 12 ---
220

EETING OF NEW YORE CI1Y AND COUNTY SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION.

Taz regular monthly meeting was held at Cooper Institute, Room No. 24, on Friday sfternoon last. In the sbsence of the President, Mrs. Wilbour, the Vice-President, Dr. R. T. Halleck, took the chair. Mrs. Crosby, Secretary, read s letter from the President, expressing her kindly interest and mentioning the fact that Mrs. P. W. Davis had given a very successful lecture in Jacksonville, Floida, the first on the subject of Womsn Suffrage ever given in that State. A resolution of sympsthy with Dr. Sussn B. Smith, of Phideph n, n her resistance to taxation, was adopted.

Delegates were then appointed to the anni versary of the National Woman Suffrage Association, to be held in May next. Tuey were Mosdames Tucker, Bruick, Thompson, Halleck Stearns, Poole, and Miss Clara Norris,

Miss Mary F. Davis, of New Jersey, was then iuvited to address the meeting. She smd that men and women in their progress tarouh lfe are always admitted to be interested in all mat tors jointly, except political questons. which. after all, affect them both equally. One argument urged against giving women the ballot i that they will not use it; but she maintained that the man who always voted couscientiously was the best ocitizen, and so it would be with women; and as they had generally s good moral sense they would be apt to do their duty in this respect as in others. A great deal had been said against allowing women to sit on juries; but where women coald go. and must go, as criminals and witnesses, it was most certainly their mght and their duty to go as jurors, and even judges.

Dr. Ha'leck said one very curious fact elicited by the present agitation was, that men, from their remarks on the subject, one would think, regarded women as some new and wonderful bipeds recently descended upon the planet, rather than one-balf the human race who always bad existed side by side with men. He then commented on the mixture of conceit and sudscity which prompted a variety of young women, but little out of their teems, to come before the pubho and attempt to controvert the arguments in favor of the ballot which had been so sbly presented by women whom these girls had not the intellectual ability even to comprehend.

Mrs. Blae said it was painful to her to see statements in papers opposed to this movement that when women could vote, marriages would be less happy then at present, when it is generally admitted that women observed the sanctity of the marriage-tie better thaw men, and it was only reasonsble to suppose tbat when women had more power they would wish to increase rather than break down the barriers which proteot the basis of society. Equally absurd and weak was the argument that infidelity would acoompany Woman Suffrage, when rehgion is in feot mainly supported by women

Mr. Poole and others followed, meluding Mrs. Leagett a stranger from Cansda, representstive of the drama, who spoke with partionlar force and earnestness The meeting then adjourned to meet at same place on first Friday in May, st half-past twe, afternoon

Wonan Sursa S7. Loor.—The Wo. men's Suge Ansociation held an election last Saturday sfternoon. President, Mrs. Frances Minet; Vice. Prosident, Mrs. Beverly Offin

ti responding Secretary, Mss. Wm. P. Hazard. Delegates were appoimied to sttend both the National and the American Suffrage Associstion Conventions eoon to be beld in New York.

WaATKINS, N. Y.. March 28 h. 1870

WaATKI, N. Y.. March 25h. 1870 Dzan REvoLUTIOn By correcting su error which sppesred in an item in a lste issue of your paver, you will do me s favor. I am represent ed in said item, as having been conpected with the Elmirs Female Coliege. Ths is a mistake as my Alma Mster was the Ontaro Seminary at Canandaigua, New York. For the past two years I have had charge of the "Ladies Liberal Ibstitute, at Climton, New York Having sundered my connsction with this institution. I may now. without charge of egotism, or sclf-pruse, speak a word in ite favor which I shall be grateful for the privilege of domg through the columns of your popular paper, wh-re my "word must, becsuse of your extensive circulation, meet the eye of so many having daughters to educate.

As a school for young ladies, where an extended aud thorough carriculum is enjoyed by its students, no Seminary in the land., m on vinced, can offer superior facilies to the Clinton Institute. Its Facuilty conmsts of ma ladies of thorough education (and this i something which should not always be taken for granted regarding many schools and seminaries), who have had the advantage of extensive experienc as instructresses Miss Mary S. Baoon. its present principal, is a lady most highly esteemed for her intelleotual culture, snd devotedly loved by afl who know her, for her truly womanly attributes of

The building and grounds of the Ledies Inst tute sre commodious, well fitted up, and cheerful, furnishing for the inmstes and the institute many advantages, home-comforts, and even luxuries, rarely found st boarding schools. Most conscientiously can I recommend any desirous of sending their young daughtors from home, to a school where they will be wisely and tenderly cared for, as to physical health. manwers and morals, and where they will be trained imtellectually with the utmost paims-taking and fidelty, to commit their daughters and wards, to the kind and motherly gusrdianship of Miss Bacon. and her efficient corps of sssistants.

In the item to which I have referred. you allude very complimentary to the hospitalities ex tonded Miss Bisbes, upon occasion of s isit of this young lecturer to Watkins, two or three years since. The vist of Miss B. with one of T RvoLoN Associate Edrtors, Perkes Pillsbury. and the imtoresting and imstructive loctures dehvered by them, are. still remembored most piessurably by the Watkins public. The con vincing logic of Parker Pillsbury. upon thet ocasion, was. 1 am convinced, instrumentsl in arousing the, interest of many who had mever before given sttention to the Womsn tion.

Agitstion upon the various phases of this theme, is all that is meeded in resding and thinking community like ours. in this wide awake. enterprising village of Watkins, to con vinoe it of the justioe f the demands pow be ing made throughout the cavilimed world by and Thersfore, thet information upon thi thems may be deinted, thought d fe cited, brain and beart both aroused. and

1ogo ot pr, send us "agitstors!

1ogiol and cloquent speakers, men snd women Lovs Bownes Do. VioePresident for Scbuyler oounty of New Yor Womsn's ufrage Aocition ——————— THE. WOREKING WONMAR

———————— THE. WOREING WONMAN" Tazzz so much willmgners to work, much esrpestness and kimdty feeing among vanced women, that it seme an mie prty pot to concentrate all these imfiuenoes suo as to render them most powe ful for efecting their objeots. Partcularly st the present juncture women cannot afford to divide thesr foroes. or besitste in what way. or bow far they shafl gve themselves to the work that lies beiors them Whatever it may be, let them won talk abont it. nor wine compisipingly, por ask sympsthy on account of thew sex, nor wop to throw stone in any other woman's way, but do a

There 1 no field of empioyment that is not open to woman's persev rance and efforts well as to those of men There sre pienty of men who never sunceed in mskomg even hving —there are others who work steadly snd pers. veringly for years in orde? to entahsh the con fidenoe of the public or of an idavidual, 1 thew trustworthimens od capacity Busimess is business. and wome must enter mio it upon the same bass as meon 1 will say, for their encouragement. bowever. that I have pever knowa one im earnest to fal But I have known men.

A young ledy writes that she thinks tolegraphing very bad busimess for women tht she bas looked for a situstion for thee months and bas pot yet found it. But it she does mot find s situation in three months more. it will not prove telegraphing s bad businens. por a prove the fact that many young women sre earning an excellent and bonorsble bvelibood by it. There is bhardly any employment st which some people are mot only earming a good hvms but making money. Tre question gomery one of skill, competoncy. snd stondt por pose.

WouEs AncErTRCTS.—Anong the mew and antried fields ready for the oocupstion of women is thet of awelling bouse srohmtur. Evey housokeoper knows what enormons pdity has generally been dispiayed in the contrueon of the family awellimg the waste of cormer. the saorifioe of detail meoary to o and comiort. to apparent mize wnd shew. the utter ignoranee of those points in the imter nal arrsngoment which promote eouvonienoe and comtort and save time and l Some body hes istely undertaken to show bow moch actusl money bes boen we i pp p the lettor "in hononr and sim word Could any one, or doren porsons. compote the me, money and ve oy lsbor of women owing to the miserle oon struction of dwelting houses

in two how t te w pecil con e w meontioned were found t hve a indi Women rlly p wanto ot and clost of the want of windows tor vons istion. of the imoeiity of o most important setions ti. and varions othe r g. o

--- page 13 ---
of the most costly as well as the poorest houses, yet they bave not seemed to think of the remedy in providing better demgns and calling public attention to them. REAL EstATE AORNs offer another excellent field for the sctvity of women. It is a quiet, nice business, in which a lndy would bave bttle to do but sit in bex office and receive clients, boys being employed, as they are mow by men, to colleot rents, show dwellings, ete. A nice office, comfortably furnished, with s sensible, well-informed woman at the head of it, would be an immense attraction in cities like New York where women do so much of the housc-hunting.

It is a subject, moreover, upon which women necossarily know more than men, and should knmow. They can see at a glance if they are good for anything, if a house is habitable, well adapted to family needs and family comfort, and they can presont the points in the clearest and most attracrive form.

There are a thousand things for women to do besides making shirts and night-caps, though these are much better than doing nothing; but the point is that they must do them. The entire advertisimg agency business ought to be in their hands, and when they have got some money to put in it they will want a bank—a woman's savings bank—the president, directors and employees all women. They will also want a Woman's Life Insurance Copany, but not antil they have a vote, and their lives are worth insuring.

Why WoMEN WANT A VorE.—A short time since a man named Wetton obtained a decree of divorce from his wite, which she endeavored to have set sside on the ground that it was fraudulently obtaimed. No investigation could be obtained, bowever. The Judge sustained the man and turned the woman ont of court. A few days afterwards the man married agnin, the second wife mot beig as well suited as she expected, and hearing of the divorce, of which it seems she had beon ignorant, set a lawyer to work to find out the resl facts in the case. and so triumphently proved fraud in regard to the first wife, that ahe got her own divorce without any trouble.

But in what position is the first wife? Who is to compensate ber for the injury she has sustamed ? Would the Judge have dared to turn her out, and refuse to listen to her if she had a vote ?

A WowmaN AGAnsT SUFFRAGE.—A Miss Mand Ernest lecturod the other evening in the ball of De Garmo's building against Woman Suffage, and made a termble mess of it. The young indy, who is quite youns, with a sandy complexion and light ourls. smd, no woman ought to vote or to lecture; and oertainly she proved herself an excellent argument in support of her own proposition. There were forty-five persons present, most of them women, and they all hung the heads and wishes they were efer mot women or else that Miss Ernest bad socepted hor own ststoments and staid at bome. We are told that Woman's Rights leoturers are mot popular, but somehow or other they manage to araw orowds, and win the respect and considoration of the most intelligent men, while, on the opposite side, with perhaps a single e coption. mo argument bas been presented which even friends could consider respectable

AEroa Wonns AnTiwTe.—The English Art Journal in an seoount of the "Studion of Roms," mentions those of American women

h ti artists, and says they will richly repay s visit Among thom wre Mrs. Freeman, well known for her jolly and too attrective Baocbus,” and ber “Chersb, which any mother's beart would delight in. Miss Fotey. who is now eugaged upon charming group. foll of ma ture and simplicity, and bas, in 44i tion to ber grand medsllion besd of Jeremish." pretty, denonte eond of "Undine," with water lillies in ber hawr

Mine Eamonis Lowis sttracts atttion for e bust of “Longie ow." a fine and troe leness of the grest poet, who gave the artist only three sittings. Queen among ber artisuc sisters. Mi Howmer. is now modeng cy o of the two Siciies. The tomb of an Ameriosn Ledy." Mrs. Lochwortp, is another of Miss Hoamer's recent works, and is copy. somewhst modied, of the ome executed by Reuch for Queon Louise at Beriin Mr. Loch worth had seen it and expressed a wish for one nesrly ke it, which ber friends gratined. Miss Bosmer bas also on the clay s besutitul modei for an English freplace.

Mrss MARwEDEL' HORTICULTAL SOmOo FO Wo- MEN.—Miss Anns Marwedel, formerly Princips of the School of Industry for Giris st Hamburs. Germeny, latd before the Farmsr's Club recenty her plan 1or estabiibing s Hortoultursl Sonool for Femsles in this country She has an offor from Mr. Robert W. Pearsall. of Osta5d Farm, Brentwood Sistion, L. L.. of some twenty scres of land, includins a oottage, farm bouss. and barn. and she now meeds only five thoussnd donars to enable ber to at omoe commence the school, fer plan is to combine theoretioal and practical instruction in horticulture with educstion for tamily mfe; or, in briet. to open snother svenue for female employmeont. She offors shares in ber project st five dotlars esch in order to raise the mecessary sum, unless some good, enterpriz ing man or woman will give it out and out."

TH BosTor HoRTICULTURAL SOmOOL.—The Boston Horticultural School for Women has been orgenined by the choice of the following offioers President, Miss Abbie W. May; Vice-Presidents, Mrs. Augustus Hemenway. Mrs. J. Ellerton Lodge. Hon. Marsball P. Wider Socretary, Miss L. M. Pesbody. Tressurer, Edward w Booper, Directors, Mrs. E. D. Cheney, Mr. Prancis Parkman, and twenty two others, isdies and geniemen A LaApy PRINTER.—On Saturday might the Printors Typosraphicsl Union of Philsdeiphis samitted to mom bership, Miss Loretts Maun, a lady who was formerly the Secretary of the Memphis Printers' Union, from which society she boid a certificate of mombership. The lady is mow regularly engaed in an offoe in thet city This case is the first in the country where s woman bas been admitted into a unmion composed of m en, In this city the women bave a separste union of their own, which is, however, subordimsie to the Nstional Typographios Union.

WrzLL DowR.—Miss Alice Conkey, of Appleton, Wi has been appointed Professor of Matbemstios in the N. W. Female College at Evanstown, Hlinois. THE Brsy BoTAw.—Mrs T H Keecker, M.D.. of Cincinnats, is the best temsle botanist in the counery. Her collection of proserved plants is wondor o bold. How WonEs Cowpuct Sonoos.—The fomsle evening school at Newburyport, ., con is 7y teachers, is doing well. There are pesrly eghty popi. ANoTE Wonss Lw— . o. Brookiyn. NY.. student t the Louis Lw Soboo has passnd very severe sasminsion i that oity. betore Juage Knignt, of te Circust Oourt, d o aamined to practice A VETERA THACHE—R Mrs Joromish Porter Fomming foor scool in Brownevie. Ten. ty, te only Protestant schools in the Rio Orenae Vlley Mre Porter i etwe

OF Swon Kiwoo T overy member, male and femste, in good wiansing. present 5t any busin meting, sh be

Boows Cony Convo.—There will be Woman Boffrge meeting in Bimampton. New York, commencing st two o'ioh in the noon of Wednesday the thirsnth mant fr the orgnintion of County Convion. The Onll is signed by Ldis A. Jonhins, viopre dent.

221

MES STANTONS LECTURES.

Duo the month of March Mrs. Stamion delivored loctures before large sudienoes t Wabssh, Crawfordeville, snd Indismapolis Indians st Peoria, in Dot Jnie. im Wisoonsin; st Decorst snd McOregor in iows andat Minnepol. Hastimgs. St. Pau, Stllwster and St. Cioud, in Mimnesots, snd st two or three other plsces Mrs. Stanton's engagements for April. so far as ascertained, are as foflows

Esriville, Timion. Aprnl Se St. Joseph. Michigen I12th. Jackson. 13. Toledo, Omo i Tifn. 18th. Psr 0. Uniontown. ist Fredonis. n. m4. Easton, Pa. a. MISS ANTHONY IN MICHIG AN.

Mrss AXTHONY bas engagements siready in Michigan folowe Scarg Api Jonesville, Hillsdae 7 Adrian, Jackson, Marshall, 13 Kalameo 13 Owso, 16 Eot Sg 18 Flint, 19

Mas. STAwTON ATTHE Wre —Mrs. Stamton,i still in the Mississippi Valley. 1n s private letter she says she was imvited at St. Ponl to give a lecture on Marriage and Maternity to andience of Women. Six hundred sttended at an admission of ity conts eh Sbe 39. You never sew such interest. ix imvitat o. now lie before me to give hat lecte i many different places. No question. pot ove Saffrage, tonches the community hie thet. although at the east we are constantly to18 thet the bour for such wubpects bes pot come —————————————

Connmorros—The Kanss 13y whe ar od the smmiversery exercises of Kanss Agricn tursl College in lste REvoTon. winhos to matician whe ever aen ded h im o a lody n tht the oro e amniversary she reported. were originet

HraAnTs aAxp Hown—The wumber asted Apri th is eminony preco, meny iporant topos i e. and domestie eonomy. It has some wm bint throw y o o oreene the conort of rg ret . Pt s it is the oh d ot the omort d venienoe of the patron o the pais e, sireedy been poured inte th the ity pross i oo pp Bo and Rome may woll hol p hough t ao e M A ony S i og tt the oT

--- page 14 ---
222

be lengthened down within the reach of ordimary sized women, multitndes of whom, with armstull of bebies and bundies, are often compefled to stand, or not ride at all. But it might as well ask to have every car running in the oity, built on the Pullman palace car principle, with all its elegance, lux ury and cost.

Omss1o8.—The Announcement at the bead of our editorial column last week should have been signed "pr. p."

ELszAnETn ELsTOn Was sister of Rev. Wm. Elston, rector of St. Swithin's, London. and was born at Newcastle-upon-Tyne. She wes as good a Saxon soholar as her brother and he was remarkably well-versed. She transiated the Homily of St. Gregory, and published a Saxon grammar. From the Queen Caroline, she bad a trifling pension, which ceased upon her Majesty's death; but she was suatched from poverty by being taken into the family of the Duchess of Portiand. She died in 1756.

Eronina was a Roman female, who has not unaptly been denominated the heroine of conju gal affection. Julius Sabinus, ber husband, having been defeated in his revolt against Vespasian, spread a 1eport of his own death and took shelter in a subterranean vault, where he lived concenled with Eponins during mime years. At last the seoret was discovered, and Sabinus was led before the Emperor. His friends interested themsclves warmly in his cause, and Eponina endeavored to raise the emperor's pity by showing him the twins whom she had brought forth in their underground dwelling, bmt to the everlasting shame of the emperor, otherwise so ronowned, she implored his clemency in vain; the moble-minded Eponins then refused to survive, and perished devotedly with her husband, A.D. 78.

ELnANOnA MARCHIONESS oF FoNsEoA was lndy of great beauty and uncommon talents. She was born at Naples im 1768. She cultivated boteny, and assisted Spallanzi in his philosophical investigations. During the short-hived existonce of the Parthenopesn Republic, m 1799, sbe warmly espoused the popular cause, and edited a journsl called 7The Neapolitan Monitor; and for this, to the shame of the conservative party in Naples, she was infamously treated and executed on the 20th of July. by the restored government, backed by the English under Lord Nelson. This iady ewidenced in ber lite and in her desth bow woll womsn can do and de for the sacred cause of true liberty.

LITERARY

TH PRvETI OT o Te Ag d veniences to the Indivianal, to the Family, sud to Sooty. of Frands in the Accompiisnment of the Ge nerative Funcuon. By L. F E. Bergerst, Physician tn chiet of the Arbots Hospita (Jura anstated trom the thrd Fremch ason by PDe Marmon. MD vol 12mo, Cloth $1.5; maited on receipt of price Turmer & Mignare. Poblishors, 109 Nasssn t. New York. 7This work is very high'y recommended by such med est journals as the London Laneet. the Annate Hgne Pg g, t Thep. t nd by r o t l ana apir o vry d. p . A pp er Intreion and atr re. Rew Vor W. o merhors & Co., 14 Bond st, $1.50 per anmum. Aceom.

pamying the magenine was vol 8 of the Lorory of Eawos ton. coniaming the opinions of eminent men o the question of the Bibis in achooi THE Lrrrs ConPona. Chicag AlMred L. Sewell One Gonsr yr CmicoA MAGETE o Fao. MUmawD Bom READING —Mrs. M.L. Rayne d3tor an proprietor $ a year. A trnly fancy article, 34 pages. tinted paper. well printed fashion plates, good as the best. s chosee musical selection, Fond besrt, O. ink of me" (song and music and every It will undoubtedly soon arenp to demarding women suffrage if $t goes far into tne confict now waging of Woman versus World

EvERy SATURDA. No 15. oo sims the fret inst mot of Mr. Dickens's pew story.The Mystery of Eawin Drood.” published from advanos shests. by specisl srrangement with Mr Dickens, and appears simultaneously with its publicstion in En iand. Boston Fields. Ogo00 Co —————————— Facrs you THE LADIES.— bave usedy Wheeler 8 Wilson Sewing machine over ten years without repairs, and without breaking a needle, although 1 commenced the use of it without any Have used it constantly for family sewing have quilted whole quilts of the largst size, and it is still in complete order, runs bke a top. and bids fair to be willed to those who come after me. with better powers of production than an unbroken prairie farm. Mus. H. E. G. Anmy. Whitewater, Wis.

financint Department p Under this hesd, correspondents are responsible fo heir own sentimenta, and not Te REvOoLOION..

COIN AS A BASIS FOR SECURITIES.

In our last, we considered coin in its general phases as a circulating medrum for business enterprises and essayed to show that it answers a very poor purpose indeed in that capacity, and that an extensive business would soon come to an end if there was mothirg better adaptod to its wants and purposes. Our experience for the past eaght years shows that for our mmmense internal exchanges, six thousand times as great as our external, not s dollar of it is needed.

The advoostes of coin think it indispensible for securities In thew language, it the onls sound." ssafe.legitimste, customary, and “uniform" medium known. which can make currency and drbts secure. It is their pansoes for all fimancinl evils, and without it all is shaky and upcertain. So many are joinmg in ths claquer that it would seem as f our country wes suffering grevousty and their nostrums alone could save it from utter ruin

No people were ever troubled with such short memones. Ten years ago we enjoyed specie payments. Every few years we had panios and convuimons Banks were constanily breaking. Busie men were pouring over their Wekly Bark Note Reporis Echnge o cers with their windows plscarded. uncurrent money bought here, multplied ike the plagues of Bgypt No man dre take ban i 50 from home without inquiriug about it and al expeted to tand discount i they ped et to New York or eisewhers. Banks thus organined siways coliapsed e bubble. he t crisis came.Our couniry o ad ly o year of the rebellion—merely gotting rendy for when the ban ved i, wh in earmest came, we had to fall back upon the real

basds ofwealth. the gemuine seouritios of country and dispense with its ooms ad h Com securities soon dissppenred snd in ho piace came a reality that survived the sbock of the reion nd oarried trp y afely tron the ri m history

The government for the frst ime t onit moe. took charge of the peopis pocet beoame their protector. This geve the meeded lisble than any we had ever previously enjoyed. To ask us to return to specie payments agnin. is to take awsy the protection of our government and return us mto the hands of thounds of irre sponsible and uncontrolable agents, whos promises to pay siways have proved Selusive when put to s serions test. The trouble is and slways has been that ooim wo insecure in other peopie's bands to command universsl confdence.If secuties are known to be good and sefe beyond contingency nobody wants com. 1t becomes reslly ucio gent But if eonfidence is weasened, people become sisrmed and make s rush for thew coin. This produces apame which, becoming wide-spresd, ends in convuirion and disaster.

All Uns is meede. our expeemoe for t post eght years shows. There 1 reslly po meed for pamion and convulsions, and with onr preseut system of securities, they osn never ocur again. The government has shorn our bears and bulls of ther teeth. clsws and borns They, maddened to fury for the loss of their power. are reslly the only partes making the bue snd ory for a veturn to specie payments aguin. They want the pwvilege of returming to their arens ageim, when they can tenr and gore the people again as in days of yore.

1 think their demands are impodent and unp ardonable, and rt they may wot be gr fiod. The people want s systom whioh for eight years has proved not only safe, but bas canned us to prosper beyond sanything ever knows in even our own glorions career. to be contiued. No one can for s moment imagine if we had resu med specie payment. when the wa ended, that our country would mow abibit the prosperous condition everywhere to be aon trade and commeree extem. e tiplied, farms and ctes improved more aply an ver before kmown. This, to. o e of a mighty rebelion which would have wo wterly prostrated any other maon f ot ore it totally) thet a generntion at lonst of ropoe would have been required to onsble it to ve resume its former vigor

Gronet SHrT

For Morn Pavonms. Paei T Un PERRY'S MOTH AND FRECELE LOTION The only Relispie and Marmiis Bemeas cisnee fo moing brow Fac Preper re New or. ol LADIES STOREEWALE CLRE MA RA cy M OPEe A o Apo o MA PL MET T A

M DEMOREST ATTN for priee t

--- page 15 ---
The Revolution, PFor 1870.

ThE REvoLUTION a weekly journal advorst ing Suffrage for women. ELLZABETH CADY STANTON, Editor. PAULINA WRIGHT DAVIS, Cor. Editor. SUSAN B. ANTHONY, Proprietor. TEns Six months. .00 CLUB RATS Ten copies Twenty five copies....50 00

CLUB RAT?S Ten copies Twenty five copies50 00 RATES OF ADVERTISING 1insertion.Dcentss line

1insertion..Dcentss line CASH COMMISSIONS TO AGENTS Those sending us from 23 to 50 subscribers may reta 75 cents per copy ; from 50 to 100, $1 a copy. All communiostions should be directed to SUSAN ANTHONY, 49 East 234 Street, New York.

Those sending us from 23 to 50 subscribers may retain 75 cents per copy ; from 50 to 100, $1 a copy. All communtostions should be directed to SUSAN B. ANTHONY, 49 East 234 Street, New York. OUR AGENIS.

Tar following persons have kindly offered to act as agents to receive subscriptions for Tar REvoLUTION Francis Minor, Esq., No. 10 North 4th Street, St. Louss, Mo. Mrs. A. L. Quimby, P. O. Box, 3252, Cincinnat, O. Mrs. Rebecos W. Mott, 256 Oak Street (North side), Chi cago, . Mie Liltie Peckham, Wiscomstn Street, Mwaukes, Wis, Mrs. Mary F. Snow, 319 Kearney Street, San Francisco, Oal. Mary P. Sawtolle, M. D., Salem, Oregon Mrs. Caroline 8 Colby, P. O. Box, 434, Washington, D. C. Miss M. Miller, 1808 Lee Street, Poilsdelphis. Pa. Miss M. A. Thompson, 114 North 11th Sureet, Philadelphis, Pa. ENGLAND. Mrs. Rebecca Moore, Darling Place, Higher Broughton Manchester Eng

MEDICAL COLLEGE OF THE NEW YORK INFIRMARY. No. 198 SooND AVENUR, CORNER STn FTREET, N. Spring term commences April 11th. For sonoune ment and particulars address the o city. DR. EMILY BLACKwLL. M CRANE., KETCHAM & BOWER

No. 198 SoonD AVENUR, CORNER STH FTRERT. N. Y Spring term commences April 11th. For sonounce ment and particulars address the on Fecity. DR MLy BLACK L1. CRANF., KETCHAM & BOWER D ESI1O NE RS

DESIONE RS aAn ENGRAVERS CN WOO, BROADW AY, SRWw FOSRK.- AnIT CRA. FRAN A. LA . POw 1 NVALID'S HYGEIAN HOME

BROADW AY, SRWw FOSRK. AnIT CRAn. FRANg KA. LA . POw 1 NVALID'S HYGEITAN HOME. FLORENCE HEIGRTS, N.J. TRA, A Trestment atrictly Hygienie. No medicines, sieohone stimlnts. mor Turkish Paths omployed Send sampe for mew cireulars. Philadeiphis Omes, w28 Chestunt at GREEN SAVINGS BANK, 33 Prosdway, New Yorl Onen every 10 m. o p.Deposits of s sum Conts to Ton Trousand Dotirs wil be reived. i por con Intorest. fre o ovrment Tftret o e e posits commences on the first ot every mon. HENRY SMITH, Presidont

TRAL, M A Troatment strictly Hygiente. No medicines, sleohone stimu lnts. mor Turkish Haths omployed Send stsmpe for mew circulars. Philadeiphis Ofes, 928 Chestunt at

GREEN SAVINGS BANK, 33 Brosdway, New York Onen every dsy trom 10 m. o p.Deposits of s sum Conts to Ton Tousand Dotr i e v. por co Intret. e o ovrment Ttrt o posits commences on the rst o vry mon HENY MIT, Pr RERVES E. SEL.MES, Neorsiary.

TER ROCHE a

ARD A Vice Presidents. 1y —

The Eerni R ACT S A N D B O OK S8 T FOR SALE AT THE OFFICE OF

Taa A N D B O0 OKX 8 7OR SALE AT THE OFTICH OF THE REVOLUTION

ENFRANCHISEMENT OF WOMEN.

ENFRANCHISEMENT OF WOMES. By Mra John Stusri Mil

By J bn Stuart Mill, (cloth

By Jbn Stnar M, (o 1 aper WOMEN. By Wendel Phiip TION OF WOMES. By Theodore Parker.

By Wendel Phiipe UBLIC FUNCTION OF WOMEN,

WOMAN'S DUTY TO VOTE. By Henry Ward Beecher. THE OLP PROPERTY LAWS OF NEW YOR (Address before the State Logiia Fob. 14, 1854,) UNTVERSAL SUFFRAGE. Addrens before N Logisisture, 1867. DIVORCE. (N. Y Legistatore. 1961. By Elissbeth Oady Stanton THE MORTALITY OF NATIONS. By Parker Pillsbury. EQUAL RIGHTS FOR WOMEN. (44drees 1n N. Y. State Constitutional Convention, 185 By Geo. Wm. Curtis. RESPONSIBILITIRS OF WOMEN, (Addres the first National Woman's Rights Cony vention, 1850,)

THE OLP PROPERTY LAWS OF NEW YORK. (Address before the K State Legisla ure Fob. 14, 1854,) UNIVERSAL SUFFRAGE. Addrens before NY Legisisture, 1867,

ESPONSIBILITIES OF WOMEN, (Address in the first National Woman's Rishts Convenvention, 1850, By Mrs. C.1. B. Nichels WOMAN AND RER WISHES, UGHT WOMEN TO LEARS THE ALPBABET" By T. W Higginson. NOMAN'S SUFFRAGE, (Speech in the B. 1. Legisiature, 1869,)

OUGHT WOMEN TO LEARNS THE ALPHABET By T. W Higginson. WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE, (Speech in the B. 1. Legisiature, 1869,) By Hon. J. W. Stillman

By Bon. J. W. Stullmen. WOMEN'S RIGRT AND THE PUBLIC WEI. FARE. By Ron Geo. T. How. THE LEGAL CONDITION OF WOMES IN MASSACHUSETTS. By Samuel E. Sewall.

By Matids Joslyn Gage, WOMAN'S WORK AND WOMAN'S CULTURE. Edited by Josephine E. Butler. COLLEGE, COURT AND MARKET. By Mrs. Caroline H Dall.

By Mrs. Caroline H Dall UPF BROADWAY AND ITS SEQUEL.

By Virg nis Penny. BOUND COPTRS OF THE REVOLUTION FOR 1888 & 1869.

SUSAN B ANTHONY. RwoLo Of. 4 Eat 8 e, M RS. MARY DIXON 3ONES, M.

RvoLo Ofo. 4 Eant 8 re, .

4 RYERSON STARET. BROORLN. RA BOOKS, STATIONERY, 3

BROOKLYN BOOKS, STATIONERY, o. FRANCIS LOUTHEL. Mo La Al kipas of firsciens Account Roo, P onery o, us, proton p moderste prices. 35 Printing. grapbie Work snd Rool Binains of every

Al inas of firstcias Aceount Rooks, Paper an onry os, u, proo pri modorte prices. 3 Prin. grapbie Work and Bool Binding of every style

HENRY STANTON.

HENRY STANTON. TTORNE AN COU A CEDAR STRET. Po, w yor.

SUFFRAGE FOR WOMEN. THE SUBJECTION OF WOMEN

FREEDOM FOR WOMEN

FREEDOM FOR WOMEN

WOMAN AND HER WISHES,

WOMAN AS INVENTOR.

By Elesnor Kirk,

THINEK AND ACT.,.

ONE BUNDRED TRACTS. ONE THOUSAND Orders sddressed to

M Rs

Pivase call ot send yonr orders

B. STANTON. aAnD

AND

NoraAR: PULIC,

sngie copy

sngie copy

NEw Yous.

223

A LINCOLNS R ELI G I ON THE INDEX. FREE RELIGION

TERNS. $3 4 TRAR

For Sampie Copy Address the Eaor, Todo. hse encoing fime cet

TH IDw ep vry r i iring. It recouines mo suthority but of reas ame rit belseves in Truth, Freoom. Progres. Roul Righs, wn Brotherly Love. The trensition from Christsnity t Pree Relgion. through which the civie worid now passing, but which it very 1t ondr e. 1 en more mo ous comu t te t wanstion o Empore from Pagaminm Chrstnity. TH sime to t th wat chng it 1t and offers an opportunity for Giusions on ie u which nd no Setimg pince in other paper Mr Wx. H BERSDON. of SrRINOL. A..., $or 30 years the lew partoer ane mtmst rn of P DENyLrcou, contriutes to T IpEx for Apra 2, an xcdingy ng full account of M. Lawcon —t o connpected wits bis rengion

The sttontion of Nwws DEsLn is oali t anmnduncement 17-319

Bros. & Co., Suth Avenwe. S. Bros. 4 Co., Sizth Avenve. Our esn Bons are o ol ine, Gro ri ct.Rione of o Au Bros. & Co.. Sisth Avenne. Piogue e, . wor rn Bros. 4Co. SistAyemoe Lpnen Towsls, ige se $3.9 aoren,Linen mapin, am 1.00 o r A Le o r eDr At MAN Bro 3Co. Ave o mri i Perenoie t L.T MAN Bros A Co. S Avenne A Mi Bros Co. A Gent Gon A AN Bros Co. A Neo ee pr WALTON, FIANOS, ORGANS. MELODPONS UCA Boo e STRINWAY TIANOS EFO L, aa a B Wat An mL. RALA

Bros. & Co., Suth Avenwe. S. Bros. 4 Co., Sizth Avenve. Our esn Bons are o ol ine, Gro ri ct.Rione of o Au Bros. & Co.. Sisth Avenne. Piogue e, . wor rn Bros. 4Co. SistAyemoe Lpnen Towsls, ige se $3.9 aoren,Linen mapin, am 1.00 o r A Le o r eDr At MAN Bro 3Co. Ave o mri i Perenoie t L.T MAN Bros A Co. S Avenne A Mi Bros Co. A Gent Gon A AN Bros Co. A Neo ee pr WALTON, FIANOS, ORGANS. MELODPONS UCA Boo e STRINWAY TIANOS EFO L, aa a B Wat An mL. RALA

Ca FRINTING 33 B , p

--- page 16 ---
224.

CLAFLIN a co.. Ons. V. C. WOODULL, Mas. T. C. CLAFLIN. BANKERS AND BROKERS, BROAD STREET, N v., Buy and sell Gold, Government Bonds and Securitics Rafiway, Mining and Ol Stocks and Brnds; Bonds of any State, County or City, and will make libers advances on sams; will make coflections on and iswue certinonten of deposit avasisble in all parts of the Un'on. win promptly attend to all Mafl or Telegrsphic communicstions. ho S A L V E

The important disoovery of the Carbolie Acid, as s cleansing, puriiying, and hesling agest, is one of the most remarkable results of modern medical resesrch During the late civil war it was extensively used in the hospitals, and was found to be mot only s thorough msinfootant, but 's0 the mot wondrr py ing Remedy ever yot known. t is mow presented in s soientific combinstion with other soothing and hesling agencies, im the form of s SALVE; and, baving been already used in numuerienes casos with most satistactory and beneficial resurts, we have no hesitstion in offering it to the public as the most cortain, rapid, and efectual remedy for all soree and ulcers, no matter of how long standing, burns, cuts. wounds, and every sbrasion of skin or flesh. Soid by al drugeists. Price, 28 cents. JOuN 7. WENRY. Sole Proprictor. 94 1y No. 8 College Place, New York. ENOCH MORGAN'S S0n"

CLEANS

epot, $11 Washington Bereet, e oh A M E BR 1 C A LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY, 2329 BROADWAT, N. N. D. MORGAN, Pres't. The strongest combination of advantageous festures tht are offered to the Insurance public is prosonted by this Company. REGISTRY. NEw YoRR S1ATE REOTERED PoLIOIRS, secured by pledge of Public Stock, ke the ciroulstion of Nations Banks. Rvery Rogistered Polioy is o8 secure to the holder as a Nationsl Benk Nots, or United States Bond. See Roculer Bulloun of Registered Policy Account in every Tuesday's New York Tren All Policies registered in the insurance Department free of cost.

NUTTALITY The Company is PURELY MUTUAL, an order authorizing the rettrement of the Capits stock baving been pranted uly, 1959. After January, 1870, all the pronts win be divided among the Policy Holders, after the www PLA oonT origind y Company. NON-FORFEITURE. A our Life and Endowment Polioes are monforeitale aer two or three anal Premiome bave boon paid, tho we oring to your heirs the value of every dollsy invested whether you can continue your Poliey or mot Cas PR A CAS BETURN oF SURFLU o the waw ConTRIUTIO PLAn of Dividen THIRTY DAYS' GRACE showe on ny onewsl pay ment. and the Policy beld good No RETo o TA in he Unit any pert of North Amerios, north of the Southern Cape o Tiorio, or in Burope at ny eeson of the yer Vige Presient eorta Ww. MERRILL.. m.C MRGAN

AGENTS READ THIS W WILL PAY Ao A SALARY OF e oo ? Aaar w co.

She Revslntins. LIFE INSURANCE COMNPAFY or NEW YORK.

or NEW YORE. o. 200 BoADw. PET FoLTO A Jou CASH CAPITAL, $125.000.

CASH CAPITAL, $1325.000 $100,000 DEroT wIT T IRA DEAT oF THE STATE 708 THE FROTHOTIOn OF THR PoL HoLDw All the Offoers and Directors (without an exception reserves tor further protection of the Policy wi be made This Company makes s Ossh Dividend to ste Policy Holders of 333, to 50 per cont each year in a0vemoe. by means of its iow rates of premiums. The safety of the Poticy Holder is guarded All New York Companies are obliged by the Stste to ot aide the same Resorve. The Reserve for ch Oom y is the same. csiculsted on the same table of mor at the same rate of interest, consequently. all are sate CONDITIONS OfF POLICY

This Company imposes no restriction on trevel sfter one sunual payment has been made Thss Company insures the ves of femsles This Company will not contest any lega! clsim This Company will pay claims as soon as the proot thereof is rully The rates are lower than those of any other Compsny organized under the laws of New York, and responsible to the Insurance Department for its safety. The Farmers' and Mechanics will grant insuranoe to suit on (he 1oowing plane ORpINART LI7, Enow CHmRE EDOwHE. Conrouwn IR, Jo ENDow Io0m PRODUOTF, Jor LFE. TEan Livn. REToR PREIN, AurTIN. and in addition to the above plans will issue policies on the TONTINE MUTUAL." on CHEAP PLAN FOR WOREING WEN.

o CHEAP PLAN 708 woRRINe wEn. Tontine Mutosl is s combinson of Insuranos and Endowment, and is singularly sdapted to the wants of cinns of poople who havs nitberto been debarrd rom the benents of Life insurance by its hesvy expenses. (Soe explanstion below. To insure your 1fe on the Tontune Mutusl Pisn you pay $13 once. You pey $2 anmueily. You pay $1.10 whenever s desth oocurs in your Ciass. You are certatn to recerve $1,000 And if your Class is full $8,000 Classes are regulated by ages. BOTH SEXES ADMITTED IN THE SAME CLASS ALL. HAVE TO PASS A MEDICAL. EXAMINATION Classos are limitod to ,000 Meombers. WHENEVER A CLASS 18 ONCE FULL 17 WILL ALWAYS REMALN FULL The guarantees that in case your death should oceur within yeur, althou there are mot one thousand Members in your Ulass, yot will your family recee $1,000 but in ce your Cle e more one thoussnd Members, then you would reeive a wy aoliare as thee Mom r o Ci your death

FIVE THOUSAND MEMBERS, T $8,000 Class A. Admits sll between the agee of 15 and 56 Class BAgmit all between the agee of 35 and 45. Cinee CAdmits s between the ages of 48 and 60 TONTINE FUND At the same time tht you beoome imsured. you slso ocome A MEMBER Of A TONTINE FUND

A MEMBER Of A TONTINE FUND Which may give to yourel, while ving. rge o money This is the o Compeny in the Unsted at o basinees on ound si, , t pi $195,000, anh pont he policies o thie AEND FOR ROOK OF RATES.

REND FOR POOK OF RATES. ALL DIRECTOR ARE ALL OFFIC. ARE STOCK . MOMURDY, Prestaent. E. MARTINDALE. Vies President w , Lomus M. a. Consuiting Aotery ORLawpe L. SrewanE, Counss

Onae . a, MEDIoA EAMIE 3W mE, HD. Ro er A

NUTUAL LIFE TSURAOR O. No. a1 Beoapwan. Rww Yous

o. 35 Bo. Wo This Compeny s o in e frt g mont f i ove 2.390 Poc insuring over .500,99 Don An he ,70 The Homoopets Mutns Lite Insursnos Compeny r Boo o Bo lower rots then amy other Kew or Compe y T NOo-ARTIOAT A T Company in the worls. Its ionees are all potd w p opt of the proots of art It policies ars all non forseable afer one m py ment No extrs charge is made on scoount of empioyet o ravel Premiums and Dividends al cast

WONEN INSURED AT SANE RATES AS MEN p waArT Send io7 circuire and booka

D.T WARSHALL, Presisent. JAMES COSRING, 73., V. Pres. A HALSEY PLUMMER, Secretary. STEWART L. WOODFORD, Counsel E M. EKrLLoee. M. D. Meics Examiner

oEA M.D.. for Northers and Oepir New REYmA & CLEvELAnD, 21 Bronwas, New York n Cmam . Jons W. MA., Aror, , We SaL A, Cg, T. $or Co. Boow Baw. Beltore, for Maryi, We ir C L. DCoon, Csr le, I., for Chmton Co., .

3. W. Ta1907, 150 Tremont strest, Boston. Mass., for New Englend Jom To, M.D., 19 Court t o Jons GDerw. 21 Broed re , . 5. Rooww. Miory, V o. X7 E U 8 E

W

A.A. CONSTANTINE'S PERSIAN WEALING OR PINE TAR SOP Rach cske i wampedA. A. Constantine's Porinn Bealing or Pine Tir o. P mo oter 1 go Brwa I o.For e To. Ba No th o o 1 pr piexion tair, romoves al Denaru. sweps the Ba wo and siy ad prevents from iling of. an Iy Conns Chapped Hanos. Pimpios. Set Rboom. rot ee. r, o Ontar of the Bn. Toe Soan, t pri y this city and throngout the country ively by on ewt ph Wre ome houn et W i Di Age A. A CONSTANTING & CO. ) Ann wtrort Now Yort

NOVELTY KNIFE OR LADI AND RTL as one ormey . p i pp mas po a FOR. . 73 1 DaAY O 50.5 Or r A . . o 19 Weshingeon ., Chg.
