--- page 1 ---
THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL

Vol. XLIll No. 5

LABOR MEN WILL HELP VOTES FOR WOMEN Oregon State Federation Adopts Unanimous Resolution to Vote and Work for Equal Suffrage At the meeting of the Oregon State Federation of Labor at The Dalles, the following resolutions were presented by Attorney W. M. Davis of Portland, and were passed unanimously:

“Whereas, the question of equal suffrage will be placed upon the ballot at the next election, in November; “Whereas, it appears from the initiative petition which has already been filed that it does not restrict the ballot in any manner, but gives women equal rights of voting with men; and, “Whereas, women are naturally less selfish and more sympathetic than men; and, “Whereas, there does not appear to be any reason why wemen should not have equal rights with men in voting; be it therefore,

“Resolved, That the State Federation of Labor of Oregon, here assembled, recommend and indorse the initiative petition which has been heretofore filed with the Secretary of State, giving women the right of suffrage in the State of Oregon; and be it further

“Resolved, That this body recommend to every subordinate body in the State of Oregon that equal suffrage be indorsed in the State of Oregon, ana that every voter in the State of Oregon, members of this body or any subordinate body, use their utmost efforts and vote for said initiative ballot at the next election to be held in November."

of e is n Ss d y a y to

MISS MARY JOHNSTON DRAWS CONTRASTS

She Tells Virginia Legislators that Anti-Suffragists Want Women to Travel in Ox-Carts while Men Go By Airship

mny w., y of at he do rip- he

Some striking illustrations were used by Miss Mary Johnston in her address the other day before the Committee on Privileges and Elections of the Virginia Legislature. Virginia women are seeking the admission of girls to the State University, and a constitutional amendment granting women the ballot. After referring to the many. changes of modern days, Miss Johnson continued:

“But in the midst of all this change of status, so general, so recognized, so welcomed, there appears to exist, in a number of minds, a stony objection to any change in the status of woman. She, alone of all organisms, is not to be affected by any changes of environment. She alone is to stand, like Lot's wife, unadapted and unadaptable. She alone is to preserve the equilibrium of the Dark Ages in the midst of the electric light of the twentieth century. She is to travel by ox-cart, while you, gentlemen, take the airship. She alone is not to follow her inner voice, which says, 'Grow.' sShe is to follow your voice, which says, ‘Do not grow. We will do the srowing for both.

it. to s nt rn ce. ect

rly ur ng er ou am ate

Women Who Must Earn Their Living “There are 40,000 women operatives in Virginia. There are 12,000 women and girl industrial workers in Richmond alone. There are 900 trained nurses in Virginia. There is a great host of women stenographers in Virginia. There are thousands and thousands of women teachers in Virginia. There are in Virginia women manufacturers. There are in Virginia women farmers. Thousands and thousands of Virginia women are self-supporting. and supporters of others. Run over these lists of factory operatives, shop women, office women, teachers, nurses, writers, journalists and you will find every prominent surname in this State of the last 250

kewe ind en

irls We ess.

Official Organ of the National American Woman Suffrage Association

SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1912

SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1912

y 4 t ?

“The Suffragette Arousing Her Sisters"

4,000 WOMAN VOTERS TURN OUT IN DETROIT

Cast Ballots at Tax-Payers' Election on Street Railway

Abcut 4,000 women tax-payers of Detroit are said to have voted at the recent election on granting a concession to the street railway company. The men's vote was very light. The concession was defeated.

years. Virginia women are in the economic world to stay. Virginia girls are graduating two to one boy in the high schools. Virginia women are swelling the college rolls—of other States. Virginia women are large property-holders; Virginia women are large tax-payers. Defying Sense and Statistics

“And yet, in the face of statistics, common sense and a woman who is not an idiot, some gentleman from Far-away will stand under electric lights in the halls of a legislative assembly which this year sees introduced tax-reform, prison reform, childlabor reform, hours-of-work reform, initiative, referendum and recall, and segregation of the feeble minded—the gentleman will rub his hands, smile and say, 'My dear ladies, if you'd just consent to stay where your greatgrandmothers were!

“When you, gentlemen, come to committee properly bepowdered, pig-tailed and snuff-boxed, when you again discuss embargo and whether or no we shall purchase Louisiana, then will we, too, return to where our great-grandmothers were."

SWEDISH-AMERICANS PROUD AND ELATED

They Rejoice Over the News About Votes for Women in Sweden

Great interest is felt by intelligent Swedish-Americans, all over the country, in the announcement by King Gustavus at the opening of Parliament that the Government will bring in a bill to grant full suffrage to women. There is a very general expression of satisfaction that Sweden is to take the lead in this matter. The Worcester (Mass.) Telegram interviewed prominent Swedish-speaking people of that city upon the subject, and their views are typical of those expressed by Swedish-Americans in many other places. The Telegram says:

“Almost everyone who had any opinion to give and who was acquainted with the political conditions of Sweden, was highly elated. A Great Moral Victory “Mrs. Amanda L. Peterson, a leader among Swedish-speaking people of Worcester, gave an exclamation of delight when she learned the encouraging attitude of the Riksdag.

“It means a great moral victory for Sweden, she said. It is pleasing to note that the women of Sweden virtually have received their enfranchisement before America and Ensland. It shows that Sweden has the greatest respect for and reliance upon its women, and it will have a great effect on the country. "The women can be relied on to (Concluded on Page 35)

(Concluded on Page 35)

Courtesy The Progressive Woman

WOMEN OF OAKLAND STUDY THEIR TAXES

California Women Are Said to Be Showing Their Bargain-Counter instincts, to the Advantage of Municipal Economy

The sranting of equal suffrage in California has been followed by a greatly increased popular interest in government. The Alameda County Tax-Payers' Association has been studying the assessment of the taxes, and has found many things not as they should be. Assessments, it is said, are often grossly unequal, and faith has not been kept with a suburb which consented to be annexed on a promise that its assessments should not be raised for five years. A meeting of the tax-payers, men and women, was lately held at the Chamber of Commerce to consider evils and remedies, and representatives of the varicus improvement clubs have organized and decided to meet weekly. The Oakland Enquirer says:

“Never before in the history of Alameda County have the people been so keenly interested in public affairs. It has been notorious for a generation that people paid their taxes like machines and seemed to care little or nothing as to what was done with them. “Evidently a change has come over the public mind, and undoubtedly this is partially the result of adding fifty or sixty thousand women to the electorate of Alameda County, for this addition of voters, a large proportion of whom are tax-payers, do not see

(Concluded on Page 35)

(Concluded on Page 35)

A GREAT WELCOME TO JANE ADDAMS Madison Turns Out to Hear Her Speak for Suffrage Miss Addams had a sreat reception in Madison, where she spoke last week in behalf of votes for women. The men of the city had invited her to be heard in the assembly hall of the capitol. A press report says:

“The hour set was 8 o'clock. At7 every seat, from the front row to the gilded balcony, was filled. At 7.30 middle-aged men, girl students, and young men scrambled up the three flights of stairs. They did not bother with the over-taxed elevators. By . o'clock students stood three deep along the balcony. Girls and boys sat on the balcony rail. All indications of aisles on the lower floor were lost to sight. Women sat on the floor around the stage." Four Classes Need the Vote

“I should like," she began, “to point out the four classes of women who I think ought particularly to concern themselves to get the ballot. “First, there are the women interested in science. We are apt to think of scientists as the last pecple to be drawn into anything savoring of emotionalism. But if they would put over' their impersonal, scientific find ings, they will have to have definite political power. We have in the city hall of Chicago a laboratory to see whether milk is fit for little children.

“The second gsreup of women who need the ballot are those interested in economics. The sirl who has studied the immigrant sees in every shipload possibili for beauty and for great things. She knows that thy can only be effectually cared for and benefited collectively. When yeu come to collective action, you come to governmental action. The first people who tried to help the immigrants were a group of women who saw the atrocities practiced on the immigrant girls. The Sweatshop Needs it

“The third group of women who need the ballot are those interested in industrial work. The whole sweatshop system is a situation to regulate politically. Domestic Women Need it “The fourth group is the one made up of domestic women. The woman used to be able to take care of her children by individual effort. When she made her bread at home and milked her own cows, she did not need the ballot to insure pure food. Now these are governmental matters.”

NEED NOT TELL AGE

leither Men Nor Women Required to Do So Under New California Law— Men Said to Object to Tell Because it Hinders Their Getting Employment

A prominent San Francisco woman says in a private letter to Miss Eva Channing of Boston: “You would be surprised to know how calmly California accepts woman suffrage. If we did not know that it was a new thins, 1 should think that it had existed forever, so calm and serene is the prevailing social atmosphere.... It has been decided in the Legislature that it is not necessary for women, or for men, to state their ages upon resistration. This may seem at first sight like pandering to the vanity of women, but they say that this is not the reason. It seems that many of the large corporations have refused to take into their employ men who are over a given age, and the men find it to their advantage not to tell their ages at the polls."

The. next International Woman Suffrage Congress will be held in Hun-

--- page 2 ---
34

IN FREEDOM'S LAND By Mrs. Mira H. Pitman Tune, “Dixie"

Tune, “Dixie"

Oh, 1 long to live in a sreat free land, Where right and might so hand in hand! Come away! Come away! Come away! Come away! "Tis there we'd find all life so slorious Love and Peace would be victorious. Come away! Come away! Come away! Come away! Chorus: O God! make justice reign, We pray! we pray! In Freedom's land, oh, let me stand, And live and die in Freedom's Land! We pray! We pray! We pray For Woman's freedom.

Male and female He created, Man and woman fairly mated. Come away! Come away! Come away! Come away! Life's companions they should be, And rule together in the Land of the free. Come away! Come away! Come away! Come away! Chorus: O God! make justice reign, We pray! We pray! In Freedom's Land then let us stand, And rule together in Freedom's Land, We pray! We pray! We pray For Woman's Freedom.

MIRANDY TELLS WHY WOMEN CAN'T VOTE

Says it is Because They Were Born With a Wishbone instead of a Back- Bone

“De reason dat women ain't got de right to vote ain't becaze dey is lackin in sense an',probusness," said Mirandy; “hit's becaze dey's lackin' in backbone. Dey ain't got no spinal column, an' dey hain't to blame for dat becaze hit's along of de way dat de good Lawd made 'em.

“I ain't never had no trouble in believin' dat woman was made out of man's rib. What worries me is why de Lawd's choice fell on de rib, which ain't nothin' but a sort of rafter to hold up a man's chist an' swell hit out, an' make him look proud, but dat ain't nowise important in hitself, an' dat is about de easiest thing dat he can spare widout missin' hit.

“Co'se I ain't a-presumin' to criticise de Good Marster, but hit does look lak to me dat when he was a-creatin woman, an' had de whole man to cut from, dat he could have saved us a lot of trouble ef he had made Eve out of a few jints of Adam's backbone, instid of dat rib. “Yassum, dats so, for ain't a rib de easiest squshed thing in de whole human body? An' when you goes to de market an' wants to git de tenderest roast don't you buy de rib roast?

“Yassum, an' dat's de trouble wid women down to dis very day. Dey ain't got no backbone. Of a rib dey was made, an' a rib dey has stayed, an' nobody ain't got no right to expect nothin' else from 'em. Hit's becaze women was made out of man's rib—an' from de way she acts hit looks lak she was made out of a floatin' rib at dat—an' man was left wid all of his backbone, dat he's got de comeuppance over woman. An' dats de reason dat we women sets down an' cry when we ought to git up an' heave brickbats. Yassum, most of women's troubles in dis worl' comes of dere not havin' no backbone, an'I don't know nothin' dat makes you want to cry out of one side of yo' mouf an' laugh out of de odder mo' dan de fact dat most of de women in de worl is down on dere knees prayin' for miracles to happen dat dey could make happen dereselfs ef dey'd git up on dere hind legs an' make just one good fight for 'em.

“Yassum, dey talks 'bout de difference between men an' women, but de biggest difference is in dis matter of de backbone, an' hit's what keeps women good, an' gives men de right to be bad, for dere ain't no foolishness dat a man will stand in a woman, an' dere ain't no foolishness dat a woman won't stand from a man.

“Dat's de reason dat we women can't vote, an' ain't got no say so bout makin' de laws dat bosses us. Ain't we got de right on our side? Yassir, we'se got de right on our side, but we ain't got de backbone in us to jest retch out an' grab dat ballot. “Dere ain't nobody 'sputin' de fact dat we'se got to scrape up de money to pay de tax collector, even ef we does have to go down into a skirt

THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL, FEBRUARY 3, 1912

pocket instid of pants' pocket to git hit, an' our belongin' to de angel sect ain't gwine to keep us out of de jail ef we gits in a fight wid anodder lady, or of we swipes a ruffled petticoat off of de clothes line next do'.

“Furdermo', when de meat trust puts up de price of po'k chops hit's de women dat is got to squeeze de dollar ontil de eagle holers a little louder to feed deir chillun. Hit's women dat has got to patch deir husbands' breeches, and turn deir old dresses one time mo' ef de tariff puts up de price of clothes. Hit's women dat has got to send deir men folks out to fight ef war comes on de country.

“Hit's women dat has got to see deir babies die ef de streets ain't cleaned, and de milk is watered. Hit's women dat has got to put deir little chillun out to work when dey ought to be playin', ef times gits harder. An' s0 we women is des a-achin' to have a finger in dat government pie, an' see ef we can't put a little mo' sweetenin' in hit, an' make it a little lighter, so dat hit won't set so heavy an' ondigestible on de stomachs of dem whut ain't millionaires.

“Yassir, we'se jest a ho'nin for de franchise, an' we might have had hit any time dese last forty years ef we had had enough backbone in us ro riz up an' fought one good fight for hit; but instid of dat we'se set aroun' a-holdin' our hands, an' all dat we'se done is to say in a meek voice to men: ““Please, sir, I don't lak to trouble you, but ef you'd kindly pass me de ballot hit sho'ly would be agreeable to me. “An' instid of givin' hit to us men has kind of winked one eye to each odder an' sponded:

"Lawd, she don't want hit, or else she'd make a fuss bout hit. Dat's de way we did. We didn't so after de right to vote wid our pink tea manners on. Co'se some day we'se got to give her her share of de estate, but we'll hold on to it ontil she comes after hit wid hay on her horns. Den we'll fork it over to her in a hurry. “Yassir, dat's de true word, an' you listen to me—de day dat women spunks up, and rolls ceir sleeves an' says to deir husbands dat dere ain't gwine to be no mo' cookin' in dis house, nor darnin' of sox, nor patchin' of breeches, ontil dere is some female votin' doin', why, dat day de ballot will be fetched home to women on a silver salver. All dat stands between women and suffrage is de lack of a spinal column.

“Yassum, most of de trouble in dis worl' dat women has comes along of deir bein' born wid a wishbone instid of a backbone, but I lay dey can't help hit. Hit's all de fault of de way dey was made. But whut I'd lak to know is dis—why woman didn't get a show at Adam's backbone instid of his chest protector?"'—Dorothy Dix.

MARYLAND ASTIR

Maryland is bubbling and boiling with agitation in behalf of votes for women. The suffragists are maintaining Campaign Headquarters at Annmapolis, and delegations of suffragists and Antis have been to the capitol to interview the legislators. The suffrage measure has been introduced by Delegate Campbell, and a hearing will be held on Feb. 6. The newspapers are giving much space to discussion pro and con, and the warmth of the interest felt is indicated by the large sums of money contributed to the suffrage cause.

JUDGE TAYLOR GONE Distinguished Ohio Friend of Equa Rights Passes Away

Mrs. Harriet Taylor Upton, president of the Ohio Woman Suffrage Association, will have the sympathy of her many friends in the loss of her father, who passed away this week, at an advanced age. For many years he represented Garfield's old district in Congress. He was a strong believer in equal suffrage, and the author of an able Congressional report in its favor.

The relation between Mrs. Upton and her father was peculiarly close and tender. When Mr. Upton came courting, she told him frankly that any man who married her would have to marry her father also. He answered, “I will marry you both." The three have always made their

home together. Mrs. Upton took care of Judge Taylor with the most devoted affection during the feebleness of his later years; and if the suffrage amendment in Ohio carries, as we all hope it will, her gladness will be shadowed by the fact that he is not there to rejoice with her over the victory. SUFFRAGE IN SWEDEN

The cause of woman suffrage has entirely triumphed in Sweden. The concession comes with an unwonted measure of magnanimity. The women of Sweden not only may vote for members of the National Parliament, but are themselves eligible to that body. It marks a gsreat advance in the cause in Europe. Sweden is the first independent political society to take the step. The adoption of woman suffrage by so considerable a nation as Sweden must give great encouragement to its advocates in other countries—Omaha World-Herald.

SAYS WOMEN WILL SOON BE VOTING

“Woman suffrage is coming, not because of logic or the superior virtue of woman, or because some want it, or because subjects of taxation should have representation, or for any other of many reasons which are advanced, but because of certain revolutionary changes in our social and industrial world which inevitably will compel other changes.' This was the substance of Dr. Herbert E. Mills's lecture on "Why Weman Suffrage Should and Will Come," given the other day for the Equal Suffrage League of Albany, N. Y.

CONCERNING WOMEN

Sylvia Pankhurst spoke in Milwau kee on Feb. 2.

Mrs. O. H. P. Belmont is said to be thinking of starting a woman suffrage mewspaper in New York.

Miss Mary Winsor and Prof. John L. Stewart of the University of Penn sylvania spoke on suffrage recently before the Statg Federation at the Coellege Club.

Miss Mabel Willard will address the Study Class conducted by the Boston E. S. A. for Good Government, at 585 Boylston street, next Friday at 8. Subjects for discussion, Objections, “Woman's Special Function,' “Women Too Emotional,' “Women Unduly Influenced by Church,' “Indifference of Wemen.”

Mme. Nordica has been presented with a small gold button bearing the words, “Votes for Women, California, Oct. 10, 1911." 1It is a gift of the College Equal Suffrage League in appreciation of the services rendered them by Mme. Nordica in San Francisco, when she gave an open-air address from her automobile and pleaded for the enfranchisement of women.

Mrs. John R. McGinley of Pittsburgh, Pa., has offered to subscribe for fifty copies of The Woman's Journal to be sent weekly to offices and down-town department stores in which reading material is provided. The Pittsburgh Leader says: “This shows with what vigor the members of the federation are seeking to do everything within their power to reach every woman in Pittsburgh with news of the votes for women' movement."

Miss Harriet L. Keeler, Cleveland's new Superintendent of Schools, was the guest of honor at the last meeting of the Ohio branch of the A. C. A., held at the Women's College of the Western Reserve University. Miss Keeler was a charter member of the branch, and she told some interesting facts about early collegiate conditions in this country. Prof. Emma M. Perkins presided.

Miss Marian DeForest of Buffalo, N. Y., has dramatized Louisa M. Alcott's famous “Little Women." The play is in four acts, with twelve leading characters, and includes the most vital incidents of the story. It has been produced in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., and in Buffalo, N. Y. It is said that Miss DeForest has been singularly successful in carrying over to the

theatre the atmosphere as well as the personalities of Miss Alcott's creation. “Little Women" for 43 years has held its place as the most popular of all stories for girls. The author of this wholesome and delightful book was a warm believer in equal rights for women. On one occasion she presented The Woman's Journal with $100, earned by her pen. Miss. Alcott wrote of equal suffrage: "Every year gives me greater faith in it, greater hope of its success, and a more earnest wish to use what influence I possess for its advancement."

Mrs. Lowenburg is chairman of the Finance and Ways and Means Committee of the Pennsylvania W. S. A. It was she who arranged for the theatre benefit given in Philadelphia recently which cleared over $400. She is the wife of a prominent Philadelphia physician, the mother of a threemonths-old baby, and a most enthusiastic worker for the ballot.

Mrs. Laura J. Watkins, delegate from San Jose to the annual meeting of the California W. S. A., was accorded the honors due to a veteran. In her report of the work carried on in Santa Clara county during the amendment campaign, she spoke of the forty years' struggle, beginning with the first woman suffrage convention ever held in California in 1869, of which she is the only surviving member, so far as is known.

Mrs. Elizabeth M. Sieber has been appointed director of the Building and Loan Association of Audubon, N. J. Mrs. Sieber is the only full-fledged suffragist in her town of 1,500 inhabltants, but she is active enough for several. She has succeeded in making suffrage a live issue in Audubon, and has brought it serious consideration where only recently it was considered a joke. Mrs. Sieber will be a candidate for director of the Audubon Board of Education in Washington.

Mrs. Jessica Finch, the recently elected president of the Equal Franchise League of New York City, is the founder and principal of a school for girls which differs in many respects from the traditional system of education. From a beginning in 1900 with a few pupils in a small apartment, her school has grown steadily until it now occupies a large ten-story building. Girls are admitted from 16 years upwards. They are not perpared for college, but are given opportunity to pursue any study they may wish. No one is compelled to study a subject which does not interest her. The purpose of the school is to train the girls to become powers in the community. For that reason there are classes in ethics, sociology and economics.

Mrs. Maud B. Booth, head of the Prison League of the “American Volunteers,' is on her annual tour of prisons of the Southern States. She will inspect especially the prisons of Virginia, Maryland, Tennessee, Georgia and Louisiana. Mrs. Booth says: “I believe emphatically that a woman's place is home; but where is her home? Mine is all the way from Boston to San Francisco and from Canada to the Gulf. The question is not what a woman should be allowed to do, but can she do it properly? In this reform (woman suffrage) home is the very watchword, for all the interests of the home, and all the evils that affect the home, are largely dependent upon politics. Women not only should have the power to deal with these, but could wield it effectively."

EQUAL-PAY FIGHT IN VIRGINIA

Norfolk High School Teachers Ask Higher Salaries

Women teachers in the high school of Norfolk, Va., have employed counsel to fight for salaries equal to those paid male instructors, when new contracts for another session are signed with the school board. The action is unprecedented in Virginia.

As the result of an interview in the Yale News with Miss inez Milholland and a lecture delivered by her at New Haven, a suffrage club will be organized at Yale on the same lines as the Men's League of Harvard. There are a number of strong suffragists at Yale.

Suffrage Valentines A Yellow Rose which unfolding reveals its secret petal by petal, until at the heart is found, “Votes for Women." Price 20....... postpaid .22 Per doz. 2.00....... postpaid 2.43 Two Kinds of Picture Card Valentines Attractively designed, each with a droll little rhyme. Price .07....... postpaid .08 Per doz. 75....... postpaid .78

What To Do What Others Are Doing

N. Ohio woman A has just ordered 1,000 slips advertising The Woman's Journal. She is planning an extensive correspondence and wishes to insert one of these slips in each letter. Small slips will be sent free on applicationto The Woman's Journal.

HE Pennsylvania T Suffrage Association is running a full page free advertisement of The Woman's Journal in its elegant Bazaar program.

D t v al d 8 Ww m c It or t

HE Massachusetts T Woman Suffrage Association carried an attractive advertisement of The Woman's Journal in the program of its recent Theatre Benefit Performance.

HY should not We. suffrage program in every city, hamlet, and village carry an advertisement of The Woman's Journal? Y ou can be sure that many in the audience at every entertainment never heard of The Journal. They will all want it if you tell them about it.

me ca kil a fa er. qu na the me su

“T me na efl of me an

HE Illinois Suf- T frage Association has asked for 2,000 subscription blanks to help on the State campaign for more subscribers to The Woman's Journal. Each present subscriber is to be asked to get one new subscriber. Each suffrage club is to be asked to be responsible for getting a certain number of subscribers, according to the size of the club.

tha ad an by tha me era thr

P to the first of Uee year the president of one of the State Federations of Women's Clubs had never heard of the Woman's Journal. On learning of the paper she immediately subscribed. There are many simple ways of advertising The Journal. A list of ways to let people know about the paper will be furnished on application.

O You tec has sett will in aus s0c

--- page 3 ---
WISCONSIN DEBATERS WIN FOR SUFFRAGE “As far as Wisconsin and Illinois are concerned, would it be preferable or is it best to allow women the ballot?"

This was the subject of two debates last night. A team from Racine High School debated the negative side of the question in Kenosha, with the result that they lost to the affirmative by a unanimous vote. At the same time a Kenosha High School team with sixty rooters came to Racine to debate on the negative side, and lost to the Racine High School, which won with two votes for the affirmative and one for the negative.

1f two debates between these High Schools can settle the question, Wisconsin, at least, is entitled to equal suffrage, when the men of the State cast their votes next fall.—Racine Times.

SWEDISH-AMERICANS PROUD AND ELATED

(Continued from page 33.)

support moral issues. It will have its influence on other countries, also, and probably will hasten the sranting to their women the same privileges as the women of Sweden. Swedish Pastors All Pleased Swedish pastors of Worcester were all of the same opinion, that Sweden will benefit morally by the enfranchisement of women. All were pleased that a victory seems inevitable for the women who have worked for years to gain suffrage.

“Rev. John Gullans said that such a course, if adopted in Sweden, will operate as an experiment to show how woman suffrage will work. Al mations will have their eyes turned to Sweden to watch for results.

Had Seen It in Washington "“Women today are intellectual and pretty well posted on political matters. My wife had the privilege of voting in the State of Washington, and I found she chose the same candidates as I did, which I thought very sensible, and it raised my esteem for woman suffrage, he said. 'The women of Sweden will work to make the country better, morally and politically. It will in a measure offset the rabid onslaught of extreme parties that are gaining headway. It will aid in settling the liquor question.

Puts Sweden in the Lead “Rev. Olaf P. Peterson said: It means added force for the temperance cause if the recommendations of the king are carried through. It will mean a balancing element for the moral welfare of the country. Women are generally on the right side of all sreat questions, whether of home, church or nation. It is quite a jump ahead of the women in other lands if the women of Sweden succeed in setting suffrage. will Benefit the Country

“Rev. Frans A. Ensstrand said: The time is apparently ripe for women to gain equul rights with men in national affairs. No doubt it will benefit the country morally, and the class of voters gained by enfranchising women means a great deal to temperance.

Means Fall of Conservative Party “Editor Axel Tode gave his opinion that the King of Sweden is following advice from the liberal government, and that the primary move is made by his councillor, Carl Staaff. He said that the bill introduced by the king means the complete victory of the liberal government, and assures the overthrow of the conservative party.

I hope the action of the Riksdas will be favorable to the enfranchisement of women in Sweden, said Rev. lonas P. Zettervall. It will benefit the country and give cleaner government. The king has made a wise move and his attitude on this important question should be the cause of great satisfaction among the suffragists the world over."

On petition of Dr. Evangeline W. Young, a bill to raise the age of protection for girls from 16 years to 18 has been introduced in the Massachusetts Legislature. “Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm" will be given at the Garrick Theatre in Philadelphia, Feb. 19, under the auspices of the Women's Suffrage Association of Pennsylvania.

THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL, FEBRUARY 3, 1912

A WOMAN DOCTOR Appointed to House of Refuge in Cincinnati When Miss Edith Campbell was elected to the Cincinnati Board of Education—the first woman to be chosen in that city—the suffragists were happy. Now the new mayor, Henry T. Hunt, has appointed Dr. Frances Collingshead as Assistant Superintendent of the House of Refusge.

This institution belongs to the city, and is not only a home for youthful offenders, but also a refuge for neslected children whose parents have deserted them or who are themselves confined in other places as law-breakers; also for children whose natural protectors are unable to care for them. The positions in this institution have always been given as rewards for the workers of the political party in power. But Mayor Hunt is a different sort of man. He is lifting all municipal offices out of political control, and is looking for the best man for the place. In regard to the House of Refuge, he looked not only for the best man, but for the best woman, and in the appointment of Dr. Hollings-

DR. FRANCES HOLLINGSHEAD

head everyone concedes that he has made a conspicuous success. Dr. Hollingshead is a granddaughter of the famous actor, James E. Murdock, who was associated with Booth and E. L. Davenport in their sreatest successes. In his later years the great actor taught others his incomparable art; and Dr. Hollingshead's mother was, like her father, a teacher of elocution. One of her daughters is a great Shakespeare reader and interpreter in lectures, although she will go but a short way from her roof-tree, where she is the devoted teacher of her children.

Dr. Hollingshead can write a goodly part of the alphabet in giving the degrees she has received in universities, and her last specialty is sex hygiene. Already she has announced many practical plans for the betterment of the children under her charge. She will be a potent influence in having the House of Refuge moved further into the country, where outdoor work will not only aid in the reformation of those needing reform, but will be for the great improvement of all. She has decided that the pond in front of the Refuge, heretofore used only as a landscape ornament, shall be used to teach all the inmates to swim. Such are the practical ideas women carry into public service.

Before this administration, the position of stenographer to the Mayor has always been another coveted political plum. This time Mayor Hunt has selected the person who was stenosrapher in the office of the County Prosecutor, Miss Jennings, thus showing his belief that a woman can keep a secret. “The world do move." S. R. McL. Glendale, O.

NOTES & NEWS A ten-hour bill for women has been introduced in the Maryland Legisla ture by the Consumers' League. Judge Charles B. Seymour and Miss Virginia Robinson debated woman suffrage recently in Louisville, Ky. The Woman Suffrage Party of Minnmesota is reperted to have disbanded. The Minnesota Woman Suffrage Association will carry on the work.

Pennsylvania is alive with suffrage activity, and the coming Fair in Philadelphia promises to be a sreat success. Mrs. Blankenburs, wife of the Mayor, will make an address. A bill has been introduced in the Legislature to enable the sheriff of New York City to appoint women as deputies. The intention is to have them lock after women and sgirls.

Hon. Howard Davies, author of the direct primary law of Maine, took an advance stand in advocating woman's suffrage and the recall in a recent address before the Men's Club of the Universalist Church of Woodfords, Me. The key to the report of the Chicago Vice Commission Report will be kept secret. The grand jury, after reading a cepy loaned by Judge William Mc- Surely, decided not to compel the officers of the commissicn to produce it, as asked by the Christian Society.

The Rev. R. B. Hassell, the newlyelected Mayor of Everett, Wash., has appointed a woman as his executive secretary. He has also appointed a woman physician as head of the Health Department, a woman to the Park Board and one to the Library Board. The president of the Society for the Preservation of Virginia Antiquities published a letter against votes for women. But the exclusion of women from the franchise is an antiquity that cannot be preserved forever, in Virginia or any other State.

Prof. Patten of the University of Pennsylvania contributes to The Pennsylvanian a spirited article in behalf of equal rights for women. He says that the roct cause of domestic unhappiness and divorce is the personal, financial and political dependence of women.

Debates on woman suffrage between Beatrice Forbes-Robertson and Mrs. John Martin are taking place in various cities, and arousing much interest. It is said that Mrs. Martin's anti speeches make even morg converts to votes for women than the words of Beatrice Forbes-Robertson in its favor.

The Omaha W. S. A. has started a series of suffrage teas. The first was held at the home of the president, Mrs. W. E. Shaffer in Dundee. Mrs. M. Sherman Felt, formerly of Chicago, told of the movement in that city, of the growth of the Chicago Political Equality League, and of her experiences selling The Woman's Journal on the streets and during the campaign trip through Cook county.

At a meeting of the State committee of the New Jersey Woman's Suffrage Party held the other day in Montclair, plans were adopted to spread the propaganda through the State. One of the features will be a house-to-house canvass in Newark. One hundred members of the party in Newark, it is said, have volunteered for the work, and 30 of the Montclair Equal Suffrage League, which has a membership of 170, will aid in the canvass.

The Equal Suffrage Association of Birmingham, Ala. has memorialized Congress in behalf of the change asked for by the Kentucky suffragists in the bill for the direct election of U. S. Senators. They wish to make it possible for women as well as men to take part in electing the Senators. The Birmingham ladies have received courteous but non-committal answers from the U. S. Senators from Alabama.

Clyde Fitch's play, “Her Great Match," given for the benefit of tne Massachusetts W. S. A. last week under the management of Mrs. B. F. Pitman and Miss Alice Carpenter, was a great success. The acting was extra ordinarily good, especially in view of the fact that all the performers were amateurs, except Miss Mary Youns,

HVYGIENIC CORSETS An unusual value at $5.50 and $7.50 HYGIENIC CORSET FG. C0.

who sgenerously save her services. John Craig contributed the stage settings. The audience was large and appreciative, and the entertainment cleared a handsome sum. The advertising on the program alone brought in $950. The Winnipes Tribune is taking a straw vote of its readers as to woman suffrage. At latest accounts the replies were in favor more than four to one.

The women of Sweden are probably better prepared to undertake civic responsibilities than those of any country other than Great Britain and the United States. The educational system of Sweden has given its women opportunity for high mental cultivation and the literary prominence which many of them have won shows that they have made good use of it.— St. Joseph News-Press.

A statement has been widely circulated by the anti-suffragists that 13 States forbid night work for women and define the hours within which they may be employed. Mrs. Florence Kelley, secretary of the National Consumers' League, in a letter to the New York Sun points out that, instead of there being 13 such States, there are only three. The Antis constantly make wild and sweeping assertions about the number of States having such and such laws, and cne after another of these assertions has been proved to be untrue, but it is impossible to sift them all, except by an exhaustive examination of the statutes in 48 States, for which it is hard to find time.

Dr. Robert Ellis Thompson, head of the Boys' Central High School in Philadelphia, was one of the speakers at the recent anti-suffrage meeting in that city. He asserted in his address that Judge Lindsey was opposed to woman suffrage. The philadelphia women telegraphed to Denver, and received a prompt and indignant denial. The incident shows how grossly ignorant of well-known facts anti-suffrage speakers semetimes are, and how little pains they take to inform themselves on the subject before undertaking to instruct others. Jane Addams said that one of her reasons for accepting the vice-presidency of the National Suffrage Association was to put a quietus on the persistent efforts of opponents of equal rights to represent her as an Anti.

OAKLAND WOMEN STUDY THEIR TAXES

(Continued from page 33.)

things through political glasses, but from the viewpoint of practical common sense and business. “Women vcters, and especially women taxpayers, are the same shrewd, far-seeing individuals who have educated themselves to believe that every purchaser should receive a hundred cents of value for every dollar expended, and that, if a bargain counter be in sight, they ought to get more for their dollar.

“This practical education is naturally being applied to political life, and when women go to the polls they will be inspired by practical principles far more than by practical politics. It will be hard to convince a woman that a man should be elected to an office supported by the local taxpayers because cf his political belief more than for his general fitness. These ideas are being manifested today in the field of local government, and it is noteworthy that at last night's meeting an accredited representative was present from some of the women's clubs.

“There are many complications surrounding the assessment question, but under the searchlight of a vigorous popular campaign such as has been

358

Of Course You've Tried Educator Wafers-buttered! Didn't you find them far more convenient to serve than bread—to say nothing of their delicious whole wheat flavor—as satisfying as it is unique. you know how exquisitely sweet and nut-like are Wheat Wafers—one of many varieties of RACKE They were originated by my father, Dr. w whose great aim in life was to give to the world a cracker containing all the nourishment that Natwre put

I pessonally sample cach day's bake. may Educator Wafers just like the ones my father originated. Get them at your grocer's. Look for the name EDUCATOR. "If Re cannot supply you, order from us. Anyway, send 10 cent in stamps for large trial box, and please mention your grocer's name. JOHNSON EDUCATOR FOOD CO. 24 Batterymarch St., Boston, Mass.

— 2 inaugurated, the truth will come to light and general satisfaction will be demanded by the public.

"With so much power in their hands under the initiative, the referendum and recall sections of the city charter, it is but natural that the voters should not only feel the responsibility but appreciate the immense advantage to be reaped by them by making use of the opportunities that now exist.

“Until a few months ago the public might raise a general Babel over its affairs, but it was powerless to secure the redress it desired. But now all this is changed, and voters, realizing the efficiency of their efforts toward rectification of public wrongs, are naturally stimulated to still sreater efforts because of the certainty that their work will not be in vain."

SPECIAL NOTICES.

HOUSEWORK.—Armenian of 20, with excellent recommendation from former employer, wants place, preferably in private family where he can improve his English. Can read and write English, but not speak it fluently. Address Olan Shirinian, 57 Market Street, Lynn, Mass. NURSE OR CHAUFFEUR.—Armenian with four years' experience as nurse, seven as chauffeur, and 'twelve in drug store, wants work in either line. Speaks English and French; has first-rate, references. Address Aris Garinian, 28 Kneeland Street, Boston. HOUSE OR STORE.—Armenian teacher, here to take normal course, could not follow lectures at Normal School for lack of practice in hearing English, though well able to read it and to understand it if spoken slowly. Wants housework or other job where he can hear English talked, Excellent reference as to character. Address Ignadios Bartevian, 253 Shawmut Avenue, Boston.

Sigrid A. Johnson

Style, fit and satisfaction guaranteed 673 Boylston St., Gill Bldg. Tel. B. B. 1471-M

--- page 4 ---
THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL, FEBRUARY 3, 1912

36

FOUNDED BY LUCY STONE and HENRY B. BLACKWELL A Weekly Newspaper Devoted to Winning Equal Rights and especially to Winning Equal Suffrage for Women. E ditor MISS ALICE STONE BLACKWELL 3 MONADNOCK STREET, DORCHESTER, MASS Contributing Editors MISS MARY JOHNSTON MRS. IDA H. HARPER MISS ELLIS MEREDITH REV. CAROLINS BARTLETT CRANE MRS. MABEL CRAFT DEERING.

Office - 585 Boylston Street, Boston, Mass. Telephone, Back Bay 4717 NEW YORK office: National Suffrase Headquarters, 508 Fifth Ave. NATIONAL AMERICAN WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION

505 Fifth Avenue, New York City. ANNA HOWARD SHAW, President, Moylan, Pa. JANE ADDAMS, 1st Vice-President, Hull House, Chicago, Ills. SOPHONISBA P. BRECKINRIDGE, 2nd Vice President, Green Hall, University of Chicago, Ills. MARY WARE DENNETT, Corresponding Secretary. 505 Fifth Avenue, New Yors. SUSAN W. FITZGER ALD, Recording Secretary, 585 Boyliston Street, Boston, Mass. JESSIE ASHLEY, Treasurer, 5065 Fifth Avenue, New York. HARRIET BURTON LAIDLAW, 2nd Auditor, 6 East 60th Street, New York. ALICE STONE BLACKWELL, Editor of “The Woman's Journal. Monadnock Strect. Dorchester., Mass. ————— SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1912

Entered at the post-office, Boston, Massachusens, as second class manter SUBSCRIPTION One Year . $1.00 Six Months 50 Domestie Four Months on Trial . . .25 Single Copies .05 Canadian or Foreign: One Year 1.50 On sale at Brentano's, New York City; also on news-stands in New York, Boston and elsewhere. nnn RECEIPT of payment must not be expected to show on address label wder two weeks from date received. Instructions for RENEWAL. DISCONTINUANCE or CHANGE OF ADDRESS should be sent two weeks before the date they are to go into effect. Both old and new addresses must always be given. A rrh r Business letters should be addressed to the office of The Woman's Journal, 585 Boylston Street, Boston, Mass. Registered letters or express company's money orders may be sent at our risk. Money sent inetter mot registered will be at the risk of the sender. Checks and drafts and post-office orders should be made payable to The Woman's Journal. Advertising rates will be sent upon application to advertising manager. New York Advertising Representative, M. D. Bryant & Co., Inc., 200 Firth Avenue. New York City. Business Manager, AGNES E. RYAN.

DESTROYING THE HOME"

The assertion is constantly made, by the mediaeval minded, that equal suffrage will destroy the home. The home is dear to the hearts of women, and the last thing that they would desire is its destruction. Equal suffrage does not operate to destroy it. This has been abundantly proved by the experience of the enfranchised States. The homes there are much the same as elsewhere, except that the mothers generally take a more intelligent interest in public questions, and can put forth more power for the protection of the home in an emergency—as when they prevented the defeat of Judge Lindsey in Denver and secured the recall of Mayor Gill in Seattle. In fact, while many good but conservative men hesitate to give women the ballot for fear it may hurt the home, many of a different stripe oppose it for fear women will use their votes too drastically against such enemies of the home as drunkenness, gambling and licentiousness.

These are well knewn foes, and thoughtful women are on their guard against them. But the home is menaced, perhaps even more seriously, by other forces to which many women are not yet awake. Mrs. Caroline Bartlett Crane, in her address at the National Suffrage Convention in Louisville, put it in a nutshell when she said that the great need is to protect the home from the encroachments of trade and of partisan politics. At the same meeting, Dr. Harvey M. Wiley said that the women's cooperation and the women's votes were urgently needed to help solve the difficult problems before the country.

Not long ago The Survey, which represents the organized charities of New York City, published the results of an investigation into the financial condition of a large number of wageearning families. It brought out the astounding fact that, in two-fifths of the cases investigated, it was impossible for the parents to support even a single child unless the mother as well as the father worked for wages. It was not a question of maintaining a decent standard of living. The father's wages alone would not buy the bare necessaries. There are now in this country, it was said, so many unmarried male immigrants who can be hired for the price of a mere subsistence, that in a growing number of industries the standard of wages is no longer what will support a married man with a family, but what will support a single man living in a bunk-house. It used to be complained that the entrance of women into the labor market had lowered the wages for men. Now the large supply of single men in the labor market has lowered the wases for married men. The Survey susgested establishing a minimum wasge for unnaturalized foreigners. Of course the male immigrant does not work cheap because he likes to any more than the woman in industry does. Both would gset more if they could. But the competition between employers is so fierce and the wish to make money so sreat that the cheapest possible labor is sought, and the wage-scale for all tends constantly to approximate to the lowest standard.

The same usgly fact was brought out at the recent hearing in Massachusetts on the question of establishing a minimum wage for women and minors. The chief speaker against it was the head of the State Beard of Education. He argued that the basis of wages today was not the earning power of the head of a family, but the earning power of the whole family. it would not do to haye a minimum wage for women and children, he said, because so many men were absolutely unable to support their famiilles uress their wives and children became waseearners, too; the wives and children sot small pay, but if each of them earned a little, the family could get along. The very

fact which seemd to the writer in The Survey an argument for establishing a minimum wase, seemed to this gentleman an argument asgainst it.

The same fact is brought out yet again by the shocking conditions revealed by the Lawrence strike. Mills paying the owners large dividends have been paying the workers such miserable wages that an American standard of living could not be maintained upon them. The cheapest foreign labor was summoned in to do the work. When the working time was slightly shortened by law—two hours in the course of the week, a measure designed to protect the health of women workers— these small wages were still further cut down, and then even this cheap foreign labor revolted. Thirty-two nationalities have gone on a strike. The workers say it was hardly possible to keep a home going even on the former wages, and on the new ones it cannot be done at all. They say, further, that instead of sending the militia, it would be better to send the Board of Health to see how they are forced to live. But the only way of settling the trouble, under our present arrangements, is by the barbaric method of a sreat industrial duel—a contest of strength and endurance between rich employers on the one side and starving operatives on the other, as to which can hold out the longer.

The same kind of difficulties are constantly breaking out, now here, now there. A Chicago paper has a cartoon which represents the destroying of the American home. A sinister figure is hacking through the roof of a modest frame cottage with a weapon labelled “Poverty." Thousands of homes are always on the ragged edge of destruction from sheer destitution, and illness or accident is liable at any moment to send them over the verge. Is it not high time that women—the natural “guardians of the home"—should study the causes of these unsatisfactory conditions, and unite with men in trying to find a cure? The best efforts of both will be needed to solve the problems, which are pressing more urgently every day. Nothing will stimulate women to study them like having the ballot, and feeling an actual responsibility in the matter. A. S. B.

BAN SUCCESSFUL SPINSTERS

In the American Magazine for February, Miss Tarbell gives us another reactionary article entitled “Making a Man of Herself.' By this she means following a trade or profession. Forty years ago, or even thirty, it would have been worth while to defend business and professional women from such charges as Miss Tarbell brings against them. Now, it would be to waste energy in “attacking extinct Satans." We have travelled too far away from the time when a jeering crowd sgathered in Worcester, Mass., in front of the little shop where a shoe-maker's widow had put her name over the door and set out to make a living for her children by continuing her husband's business.

All of us know business and professional women to whom Miss Tarbell's accusations of being “cold, self-centred," etc., do not apply; and probably most of us know some to whom they do. Of course, if a woman “makes success in a trade or profession her exclusive and sufficient ambition," crushing out all the affectional part of her nature, the result is “repellant;" but the business or professional woman is rare indeed who has not her other and tenderer side. Excessive absorption in business narrows the mind and hardens the heart, but it is oftener a masculine than a feminine failing.

Miss Tarbell says that “in free fields we have yet to produce a woman of the first calibre." America has yet to produce a male dramatist, novelist, artist or musician of the first calibre; but he may appear in tfime, and so may the firstclass woman. And it must be remembered that even in the fields that Miss Tarbell calls free to women, a woman is generally at a very real disadvantage. She instances manufacturing. But how many sirls are given any business training? How many factories employing women look upon a woman as eligible for their higher posts? It may be inherently impossible for a woman to become a first-class manufacturer, but this is not yet proven.

But if an unmarried woman does make a business or porfessional success, Miss Tarbell says, “her triumph is resented by nature and society;" “Society regards her as one who has shirked the task of life and therefore should not be honored;" “The antagonism of nature and society to the militant woman is less prejudice than self-defense. It is a protest against the wastefulness and sacrifice of her career." That is a very unworthy and short-sighted view. In ninety-nine cases out of a hundred, when a woman stays single it is because she has not had a chance to marry for love, and has too much good sense and real womanliness to marry for any lower motive. If she does something else and makes a success of it, society regards her as having shirked her proper task, Miss Tarbell says. And if she does nothing else, how does society regard her? As having falled to “catch a husband." Nature unquestionably resents celibacy. Whether in men or women, it tends to crankiness, or worse, unless they have learned how to take rational care of their physical and mental health. But the unmarried woman who is making a business or professional success does not fare half so badly at the hands of either nature or society as the unmarried woman who has no such resource.

Miss Tarbell seems to think the successful single woman ought to be put under some kind of ban: “Nature and Society must not permit her triumph to appear desirable to the youns." Nature, happily, does not permit celibacy to appear desirable to the younsg, and nature is strong enough in that particular to dispense with adventitious aid from society. The man who does not choose to marry is not subjected to social contempt as the “old maid” still is among unthinking persons, yet the great majority of men prefer to marry. But, if celibacy is in no danger of seeming attractive, the same can not be said of a business or professional triumph. A score of Miss Tarbells, preaching their best, could not keep thousands of sirls from admiring the successful actress, authoress or singer; nor many of the more thoughtful from admiring and wishing to emulate the successful teacher or physician.

Miss Tarbell alleges that there exists among equalrights women “a frank advocacy of celibacy.' If so, it must be limited to a very small school, and no one need worry for fear it will gain many followers. An illiterate alderman, posing as a champion of economy, once objected to a proposal to place twelve gondolas on the lake in a certain city's public park. "“No," he said, “there is a better way. Let us buy two ay thim—a male wan and a female wan. Thin, gintlemen, let Nature take her coorse." Nature is so sure to take her course

that argument on that head is a waste of breath. As Wendell Phillips said, “Let education form the rational and moral beins. and Nature will take care of the woman." Society's ban upon the spinster has been much lessened of late years—so much so that Miss Tarbell actually seems to feel called upon to reinforce it. But could anything be more fantasey funny than for one successful spinster to demand the placing of a social stigma upon others? A. S. B.

LAWS, WRITTEN AND UNWRITTEN

An anonymous opponent is writing to the Baltimore papers challenging the suffragists to name any law for the benefit of women or children in an equal suffrage State that he cannot match in a State where equal suffrage does not prevail. Let them invite him to show in an anti-suffrage State a law like those statutes of Wyoming and Utah which provide that women teachers in the public school shall receive equal pay with men when equally qualified: (Revised Statutes. of Wyomins, Section 614; Revised Statutes of Utah, Section 1853). The New York law, as we understand, applies only to New York City, not to the whole State.

Let them next invite him to show in an anti-suffrage State a law like that mentioned by the Chief Justice of Idaho, in his letter to The Woman's Journal, a measure providing that “lewd and lascivious persons, male or female, shall not be permitted to register as voters or to vote" (Section 360 of Election laws). Not long ago many Baltimore women were strengthened in their wish for the ballot by a curious incident of local politics. A political ball was given by the supporters of a certain candidate, and the ball programs bore his portrait, together with advertisements of half a dozen brothels. Baltimore women used their “indirect influence" to the utmost to defeat this candidate, yet he was elected. Could he have been elected if the kind of persons who are debarred from voting in Idaho had been debarred in Maryland?

Unwritten law is sometimes more potent than that which is written. Equal suffrage has brought about an unwritten law, the existence of which is conceded even by Mr. A. Lawrence Lewis, almost the only respectable man in Colorado who has ever written anything against votes for women. In his article in the Outlook, which the anti-suffragists have reprinted as a tract, Mr. Lewis says: “Since the extension of the franchise to women, political parties have learned the inadvisability of nominating for office drunkards, samblers, notorious libertines, retail liquordealers, and men who ensase in similar discredited occupations, because the women almost always vote them down."

Pe ing to b Cert bles. who ing selll are noth

Is it not for the benefit of women and children that such persons should be kept out of office? Are they kept out in any of the non-suffrage States?

But the whole contention is irrevelant. 1f women were forbidden to travel on the railroad, and complained of the injustice, it would be absurd to ask, “Can you name any place that can be reached by rail which cannot also be reached on foot?" There is mo such place; yet it would be a plain injustice to forbid women the quicker and easier way of travelling, for fear they might be contaminated by meeting unprincipled people on the train or might neslect their household duties. They would have to take tenfold as much time away from home to make the journey on foot. There is hardly any good law which has not been secured somewhere and at some time by “indirect influence," but the women who have done it have almost all of them come to the conclusion that the indirect way is needlessly hard and slow, and are now asking for the hallot. .

mpr At er.

Th suffr Privi impr New

EFFECTIVE ENTHUSIASM

Smit soil a gre Virgi of th ileges most with ilizat re-ech freed

Young men and boys, young women, old women, and especially cellege women, in many different States, are growing enthusiastic about selling The Woman's Journal on the streets. This takes a little more courage than some other kinds of suffrage work, but it is also worth more. The sight of the newsies on the street is a magnificent advertisement for the cause, and would be worth while for this alcne, even if they did not sell a paper. In the second pla ce, the papers sold bring a large profit to the treasury. In the third place, nothing is so sreat a help in pushing the national organ. Those who have not quite courage enough to sell on the streets should sell the paper at suffrage meetings, a much easier task. Not a meeting ought to be allowed to pass withcut everyone present being asked to buy a copy of The Journal. .

W again fail t mity but a with The s pray, his fa

SAYINGS OF WENDELL PHILLIPS

I do not think that woman is identical with man. I think, if she was, marriage would be a very stupid state. God made the races and sexes the complement one of the other, and not the identical copy. I think the world, and literature itself, would be barren and insipid, if it was not for the exquisite variety of capacities and endowments with which God has variegated the human race. I think woman is different from man, and by reason of that very difference, she should be in legislative halls, and everywhere else, in order to protect herself.

“Th the f hour t wealth an ers the v liams, Privile of Del tone o the j amend

1 am speaking in a republic which admits the principle that the poor are not to be protected by the rich, but to have the means of protecting themselves. So, too, with the ignorant; so, too, with races. The Irish are not to trust to the sense of justice in the Saxon; the German is not to trust to the native-born citizen; the Catholic is not to trust to the Protestant; but all sects, all classes, are to hold in their own hands the sceptre—the American sceptre—of the ballot, which protects each class. We claim it, therefore, for woman.

“The votes eral As joint r —prob. who sr cry the for the mor for and th will kn at the until th

Men say: “Woman is not fit to vote; she does not know enough." 1 am speaking in a democracy! I am speaking under republican institutions. The rule of despotism is that one class is made to protect the other; that the rich, the noble, the educated, are a sort of Probate Court, to take care of the poor, the ignorant and the common classes. Our fathers got rid of all that. They knocked it on the head by the simple principle that no class is safe unless government is so arranged that each class has in its own hands the means of protecting itself. That is the idea of republics. The Briton says to the poor man: “Be content! I am worth five millions and I will protect you.” America says: “Thank you, sir; I had rather take care of myself!"—and that is the essence of democracy. It is the corner-stone of progress.

“Won write, w

--- page 5 ---
LOVERS AND CHIVALRY

Men and Women Passing in Procession Furnish Fun and Food for Reflection, and Give Courage for Establishing Innovation In All Towns and Cities.

— ell ng. of eel asthe

— ell ng. of eel asthe

When Mrs. Pankhurst was in America she said that at the time English women began to sell their newspaper, “Votes for Women," on the streets of London, some of their menfolk went and stood with them to make it easier. I remember that at the time I was very jealous of those menfolk. Since then I have been so busy that I forgot all about it.

ers of mot Let ike wovith ing, The ork

Now I think I can point to an equal chivalry on the part of American men. For did net a descendant of one of America's sreatest patriots stand on the street corner all one Saturday afternoon recently to “make it easier" for a young woman to sell Journals on the street for the first time? And did not two other stalwart young men sell The Journal “upstairs and down-stairs" in one of the largest auditoriums recently? And does not one of our high school boys pine for a newsy's license to sell Journals on the streets every week? (He lives in one city and wants to sell in another, and the law forbids.) Then, too, we have a letter from a ten-year-old boy who insists on selling Journals all day Saturdays in a country town. Another boy writes for informaticn about selling, and we have a faithful newsy of fourteen who sports a newsboy's license proudly and sells Journals on Saturdays for the sake of the cause. We are duly appreciative of all this chivalry.

tate his ewd tted ws). heir A ndiwith men this d if aho

hich law, nce has artinted tical ofuorupa-

Perhaps the next best thing to selling papers yourself for the Cause is to buy papers to encourage the newsy. Certainly no one sgets a heartier blessing (though silent) than the man who is lavish with his money in buying Woman's Journals when you are selling on the streets and your toes are tingling with the cold. There is nothing like the sale of a five-cent

such t in

fornjusthat on njusling, pled ties. from good time have irect the

LEGISLATIVE HEARING HELD IN VIRGINIA

impressive Scene, Record-Breaking Attendance and Many Able Speak-

impressive Scene, Record-Breaking Attendance and Many Able Speak-

The hearing granted to the Virginia suffragists before the Committee on Privileges and Elections made a deep impression. The Harrisonburg (Va.) News says:

“For the first time since John Smith and his band set foot on the soil of the new world, there to found a great Commonwealth, the women of Virginia came officially to the Capitol of the State, asking for political privileges and responsibilities. In the most conservative of all the States, with its heritage from an ancient civilization of enduring institutions, was re-echoed the Henry cry for political freedom.

1eswing eets. sufnmewause, not large great not the eting being

“Whether the listener were for or against woman suffrage, he could not fail to be impressed with the solemnity of the moment, nor could he help but appreciate the possible importance with which the movement is fraught. The scoffer may not have remained to pray, but he left with no sneer on his face.

hink, made t the 1d be capaaman that where

A Day That Made History

“The seriousness of the occasion, the feeling that here might be an hour to make history for the Commonwealth and to mark the beginning of an era, was in the air. It was in the voice of Chairman Martin Wil liams, as he called the Committee on Privileges and Elections of the House of Delegates to order; it was in the tone of Hill Montague, the patron of the joint resolution proposing the amendments to the Constitution.

that eans too0, ce in izen; s, all mericlaim

Enlisted for the War

“The meeting may have changed no votes in the committee or in the General Assembly—probably did not. The joint resolution may not be approved —probably will not. But everyone who spoke iterated and reiterated the cry that he or she had enlisted. not for the first skirmish nor for the battle mor for the campaign, but for the war, and that, if denied at this time, they will knock again and again and again at the doors of the General Assembly until they get what they seek.

know inder class edu- , the that. class in its ea of I am says: that gTeSS.

All Kinds of Women “Women who work, women who write, women who keep house, women

THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL, FEBRUARY 3, 1912

paper to warm your chilling blood, unless it's getting a ten-cent piece for the same and being told to “keep the change for the Cause." Our first customer last Saturday was a boy of kindergarten size. As he trudged off with his mother, holdins his new purchase fondly under his arm, I began to think of Mrs. Pankhurst and the dawn of the new chivalry which Votes for Women is heralding. Before the afternoon was over I had another example of the nmew chivalry. It was negative to be sure, but no less significant.

A young man and woman were passing a newsy. He spied the yellow Votes for Women bag, and, grabbing her arm, said half in earnest and half in jest, “Let's get out of here; there's one of those Suffragettes!" sShe wrenched her arm away from him, looked at him in indignation, looked at the newsy, and back at him. He locked at the newsy, grinned sheepishly, and they went on; but she did not allow him to take her arm again! What the sequel was can only be guessed, but I think he was her lover, and that Votes for Women has a vital meaning for her. I have no doubt but that he has a better and more serious understanding of the movement after that small episode than he ever had before. At least, he has learned that he cannot scoff at it and keep her respect. The quicker the young men of the country learn this from the young women of the country, the better off they and the country will be. As I saw that young couple go down the street 1 thought that doubtless it would not be hard for her to sell papers for the Cause. I had a hope that he was worthy enough of her some day to stand with her “to make it easier" the first day she sold. AGNES E. RYAN.

who have nothing else to do, pleaded for the ballot. Men who believe their cause is just stood with them. Miss Mary Johnston and Mrs. Kate Lansley Bosher added their voices. Ministers of the gospel and representatives of laboring organizations helped.

A Grandmother Speaks “If a mere male of the species should dare to draw a distinction in such a gathering, he might award the palm to Mrs. John H. Lewis, of Lynchburs. Boasting of ten grandchildren to whose future she is devoted, broad with the tolerance of years and the knowledge of human nature, her appeal was at once touching and effective. She reminded the men of the women who have made their sacrifices for them all, and, besides the sentiment, made a logical argument for legislation to suit the unfolding meeds of the people of Virginia, the investment of political liberty.

Biggest Crowd of the Session “The committee heard all the arguments with patience, as did the immense crowd, probably the largest which ever gathered in the hall of the House of Delegates. Spaces in rear of seats, aisles, galleries, were packed, and hundreds failed to gain the desired admission. Many stood throughout."

The women urged the committee to report either for or against them, so that the question might come before the House, and not to smother the suffrage bill in committee. The committee has reported adversely, with two or three dissenting votes.

JOINT GUARDIANS HIP

Mrs. McCulloch Gives List of State

Editor Woman's Journal: It is to be hoped that you have an office devil on whom cne can put all blame. In my item in The Woman's Journal of Jan. 20, I wanted to add Oregon and Washington to the list of joint guardianship States, and so stated in the first paragraph. But in the last sentence, by some mistake Washington was spelled thus—"Mississippi"—not recognized by any spelling authority as the proper way to spell Washington. Let me here give again the complete list of joint guardianship States Colorado, Connecticut, District of

tucky, Maine, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Nebraska, New Hampshire, New York, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Washinston. No mention is made here of Idaho and Utah, though their guardianship laws are excellent, but not joint. Catharine Waugh McCullech. Jan. 23, 1912. RHODE ISLAND WOMEN HEAR DR. THOMAS

hree Hundred College Women Listen to Powerful Suffrage Address From President of Bryn Mawr

The Rhode Island branch of the Association of Collegiate Alumnae gave a reception and luncheon for Dr. M. Carey Thomas on Jan. 27, at the Churchill House in Providence. Mrs. Sara M. Algeo writes:

“The College Luncheon for which we have been preparing so long in honor of President Thomas far surpassed, in numbers and interest, our highest expectations. Three hundred college women with friends sat down at a real suffrage banquet, and as many more filled the salleries and doorways. It is the first time that equal suffrage has been presented to Rhode Island collese women en masse, and the wonderfully inspiring address of Dr. Thomas was heard with keen interest. A profusion of daffodils did honor to Bryn Mawr and suffrage at the same time."

On Jan. 31, the Rhode Island W. S. A. and the College Equal Suffrage League had a house-warming in their new Headquarters in the Butler Exchange with Mrs. Susan W. FitzGerald as the guest of honor. They are delighted to have rooms of their own, and the money for the rent was secured with unexpected ease.

WILL MEND ITS WAYS Boston School Board To introduce Some Long-Over-Due Reforms

Our recently belabored School Committee has been commendably busy profiting by the lessons of the campaign. It carried to the Legislature bills providing a special appropriation for the extended use of school buildings; transferring the appointment and control of school physicians from the Board of Health to itself and pro viding for an appropriation through which 300 new teachers can be appointed, so that classes may be reduced by an average of six pupils, and principals of elementary schools be given clerical assistance. But without awaiting this extra money the Committee has passed ah order to reduce the number of pupils in each room from 44 to 40, and in the ungraded classes from 35 to 30. Other advance steps are promised, amons which we hope will be the addition of two women to the Roston Common.

WESTERN WOMEN FAVOR IMPROVED ROADS The first Women's Good Roads Convention ever held met in Tacoma last week, with 148 women present, every one of them a voter.

AN UNDESIRABLE JUDGE

Mrs. Florence Kelley Shows Up the Record of Julius H. Mayer at the National Child Labor Conference in Louisville, Ky.

Mrs. Florence Kelley, general secretary of the National Consumers' League, blamed Julius H. Mayer, former Attorney General of New York for the impotency of New York's child labor law. His influence, she said, was responsible for the amendment of the bill so that it is made legal for children of nominally 10 years old to begin work as early as they or their parents wish in the morning and work until 10 o'clock at night. Speaking of the enforcement of the street trades regulations she said;

“It is one of the ironies of our American politics that the man who deprived that bill, (New York law regulating street trades) of all value for our newsboys and who has made it impossible since for us to get a valuable newsboy law in the State of New York, is now proposed for a very important Federal Judgeship.

ARE YOU SUBSCRIBING T0 A MAGAZINE? i If so, order it through our agency. The commission is used for suffrage. We take subscriptions to any and all magazines. Club Rates Furnished. A WAY T0 HELP SUFFRAGE WITHOUT PAYING AN EXTRA CENT SEND ORDERS TO ELIZABETH POPE, Chairman of Subscription Bureau National Suffrage Headquarters, 505 Fifth Avenue NEW YORK CITY

- JACOBS' 1912 EUROPEAN TOURS An Ideal Summer Vacation would be our five weeks' COACHING TOUR OF THE BRITISH ISLES, adding the Continent if desired. Prospectus gives full particulars. Address C. W. JACOBS, Drawer "J," Rock Valley, Ia. THE

THE Yellow Ribbon $peaker Compiled by Anna H. Shaw, Alice Stone Blackwell and Lucy E. Anthony. A book of woman suffrage readings and recitations. Price, 50 cents. Order from The Woman's Journal

“It will be a scandal and an cutrage it a man who has done the things to the working women of the State of New York that have been done by former Attorney General Julius H. Mayer is honored by our President with an appointment to a Federal Judgeship."

Women Will Fight Appointment His appointment, she declared. would be opposed by the women of New York. Not only was his influence on the form of the bill contrary to the child workers' interests, but his administration of the law in the Juvenile Court tended further to nullify its provisions. He set the precedent of leniency for offenders. Now, said Mrs. Kelley, when a new child labor law is sought it will be necessary to combat what should have been the stronsest influence in favor of progressive legislation.

Mr. Mayer is also an advocate of the State Regulation of Vice, and upheld the notorious “Clause 79." Visiting New York last year, the editor of The Woman's Journal asked a prominent and highly-respected social worker, “Who is Julius H. Mayer?" She answered, “Julius H. Mayer is the special emissary of Satan on all occasions.' Let us hope that we shall not have to see Satan on the bench.

WOMEN IN PUBLIC SER- VICE

The first woman in the United States to hold a Federal Court clerkship, Miss Adelaide Utter, will retire from Government service, not to give place to a successor, but because the office she holds will be abolished. She was a stenographer when she first became connected with the clerk's office. For six years she was Deputy to Warren Watson, clerk in Kansas City. At his death in 1892 she was appointed to fill the vacancy, and has held the office continuously since that date. During her nearly twenty years of service Miss Utter has achieved a prominence in legal circles as one of the most capable of United States court officials.

The Woman's Prison Association of New York City has retained Miss Helen McKeen as its attorney at the Night Court at Jefferson Market. She is to prepare, plead and appeal the cause of any woman whose case may come within the province of the Association. Miss McKeen was graduated from Bryn Mawr College in 1904 and two years later from the New York University Law School. Upon her admission to the bar she became a clerk in her father's office. She does not pose as a philanthropist, she is paid as a lawyer, but she brings to her work a human interest and certain ideas whereby she hopes to accomplish results that will eventually benefit her sex.

The New York State Labor Commissioner, Mr. Williams, fias appointed p the following women as factory inspectors, at an annual salary of $1200: Rose Deimling, Rockaway Beach;

37

200 Huntington Avenue Opposite Norway Street Three beautiful halls with rooms connected. Especially suited for lodge rooms, concerts, dances, school meetings, recitals, etc. Three studios. Also a banquet hall. Apply on premises or to M. H. GULESIAN St. James Theatre, 239 Huntington Avenue, BRoston

See the What-To-Do Column on Page 34.

Mrs. Mary G. Schonbergs and Mrs. Carrie P. Houser, New York; and Minnie J. Van Zandt, Rochester. The two latter will serve as mercantile inspectors. — — At a recent town meeting at Greenwich, Conn., Mrs. Edward P. wWilliams was appointed a member of a committee of five to confer with the school committee as to the best means of providing new school accomodations. This is the first time the taxpaying women have been recognized in such a manner by the voters of Greenwich.

Miss Geneva Graham, twenty-one years cf age, has been appointed City Clerk of Whittier, Cal., to fill an unexpired term. She has been employed as deputy in the office and is familiar with its duties. F. M. A.

IN THE MAGAZINES

Barit, Marcel. Les groupes feministes universitaries. Grande revue. Paris. Dec. 25. Dorr, Rheta Childe. The twentieth child. Hampton-Columbian Magazine. New York. Jan. An article on child labor. Isaacs, Edith J. R. What Jewish women are doing for Jews. Twentieth Century Magazine. Boston. January. Hard, Willlam. When the law calls the children “his" not “hers.' Delineator. New Yerk. February. MacDowell, Mary. Mothering a municipality. Designer. New York. February. The Lady Mayor of Oldham, England. Van Norman, Louise E. The spread and meaning of feminism. Pictoral Review. New York. January. Whetham, W. C. D. and Whetham, C. D. Decadence and Civilization. Living Age. Boston. Jan. 20. An attempt to prove, through the examples of Sparta and Venice, that the entrance of women into public and industrial life will destroy the race. Elizabeth J. Sherwood.

TORONTO WOMEN SEEK FRANCHISE EXTENSION hey Go Before City Council and Ask That Municipal Suffrage Be No Longer Limited to Widows and Spinsters

Controller McCarthy spoke briefly upon his own motion. Present-day civilization does not allow, he said, taxation without representation. The spirit of Toronto to-day is that those paying taxes should have the right to vote. Ninety per cent. of those men, he said, who qualified to vote would like to see their wives votins, too.

--- page 6 ---
38

—

LEGAL STATUS OF WOMEN

We have an unusual wealth of information from Georgia. First came in answers from an attorney-at-law of Macon, Mr. H. V. Napier, Jr. Then recently Mrs. J. J. Weaver of the Atlanta Law School, class of 1912, sent in answers. For the most part these are the same as Mr. Napier's. So Mr. Napier's answers are printed in full and only those answers of Mrs. Weaver are given which furnish some additional information of special interest or which differ from those first printed.

Mr. H. V. Napler's Answers

1. A wife after marriage owns her clothes and other personal property owned by her before marriage. 2. A wife owns her wages earned by her outside the home, but she cannot enforce payment for services performed in the home for husband or children. 3. A husband has no authority over his wife's real estate or the rental therefrom. 4. A wife may convey her separate property without her husband's consent.

5. The husband is liable for all family necessaries, no matter by whom ordered, and the wife can be chargeable for them only when the credit therefor has been expressly extended to her. 6. Our law does not secure for the wife any portion of the family income free from husbandly dictation.

7. The wife has no interest in property to which the title is in the husband, save that of dower and a year's support after the death of the husband. If the property accumulated by their jeint efforts is taken with the title in either the one or the other alone, such property belongs to the person in whose name the title is taken. 8. A husband has no other control over his wife's personal property or her liberty except that which comes from his general control over the family pocket-book.

9. The wife has dower interest in the husband's real estate, and in the event either of them die without children the survivor inherits the entire estate of the other. If the wife die, leaving a husband, child or children, her separate estate is divided equally between said husband and children, share and share alike, and if the husband die, leaving wife, child or children, besides dower and year's support, the wife shall take a child's part of the husband's estate, provided her part shall not be less than one-fifth of said estate. The father, if livins, shares a deceased child's estate equally with the brothers and sisters, and if the father be dead then the mother shares in the estate.

10. It is the duty of the husband to provide a reasonable, suitable home for his famly to be governed by the circumstances.

crime lfo1 tie Husosnd fove children dependent. 12. The statutory grounds for divorce are: (a) Intermarriage by persons within the prohibited degrees of consanguinity and affinity. (b) Mental incapacity at the time of marriage. (c) Impotency at the time of marriage. (d) Force, menaces, duress, or fraud, in obtaining the marriage. (e) Pregnancy of the wife at the time of the marriage, unknown to the husband. (f) Adultery in either of the parties after the marriage. (g) wilful and continued desertion by either of the parties for the term of three years. (h) The conviction of either party for an offense involving moral turpitude, and under which he or she is sentenced to imprisonment in the penitentiary for the term of two years or longer. (The above are grounds for total divorce.) (1) Cruel treatment or habitu al intoxication by either party is a ground for total or partial divorce, as the jury trying the case may see fit to determine. (These grounds apply to both parties.) 13. A wife is not legally responst

THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL, FEBRUARY 3, 1912

in the children's earninss. 15. If reasonably necessary, a father is liable for some family expense for wife or child, if the expense is one of which he disapproves. 16. The father has the right of custody and control over children until they are twenty-one years of age. 17. No father can will away from the mother the custody of an unborn child. 18. Husband and wife are not competent to testify in suits where the other is a party, save and except in criminal proceedings against one or the other, but the wife is competent to testify against the husband when he is charged with wife-whipping and desertion of his children. 19. As to her separate estate she is absolutely free from her husband's control, and has been since what is known as the Married Woman's Acts of 1866. 20. Public schools up to the State University are open to all, but ladies make up the greater portion of the educational staff. 21. Women are employed in the higher positions in these schools. 22. The authority of the schools fixed the matter of salary. They are not subject to State laws. 23. You had better ask the State school commissioner about county and State superintendents being women. 24. Women don't vote in this State. 25. Refer you to the schools as to whether women are admitted to professional schools. 26. Women are not admitted to the bar. 27. Women are not eligible to elective offices. 28. No civil service in Georgia. 29. Refer you to the institutions as to whether women are on the charitable boards. 30. Refer yeu to the Prison Commission of Georgia as to whether women matrons or physicians must be in custody of women and girls. 31. Women physicians are not received as jurors in insanity cases. 32. Night work of women and girls is not prohibited. 33. The law provides sanitary resulations for factories and shops where women are employed. 34. Ten years is the age of consent. 35. The punishment for rape is death, unless the jury trying the case shall recommend the prisoner to mercy, and in that event he shall be sentenced to serve not less than one year nor longer than twenty years in the penitentiary, in the discretion of the judge passing sentence. 36. $1.000, six months in jail or twelve months on the chain gans, or any part thereof, in the discretion of the judge passing sentence, is the punishment for bastardy. 37. Seduction is a felony. 38. This question goes into the realm of speculation and opinion, and cannot be answered by an ordinary person. 39. The same as 36. 40. The only people who cannot become eligible for franchise are women. 41. Women's taxpaying is not recognized as a qualifcation for votins. 42. Women may vote for no off cers. 43. The Legislature has no power to extend the suffrage to women. 44. A constitutional amendment must be passed before women may vote for any officer.

Additional information From MWrs. J. J. Weaver

21. Women are not employed in the higher positions in these schools.

22. The salaries paid women do not average as high as those paia the men. In some cases they only receive one-third as much. 23. There are no women county or State superintendents of schools. 25. Professional schools are open to women. 26. The question of woman's admission to the bar was before the Legislature of 1911. The eloquent opposition was because “Home is the place for women." The bill was defeated. 27. Women may hold no elective office. There is a question whether the law cited below is constitutional, as it was never submitted to a vote of the people. Sec. 2167. Civil Cede of Georgia

“Females: Females are not entitled to the privilege of the elective franchise, nor can they hold any civil office, or perform any civil function unless specially authorized by law, nor are they required to discharge any military, jury, police, patrol or road duty; Provided, nothing contained herein shall prevent a woman, a resident of this State four years, and who has attained the age of twenty-one years, from being eligible to the office of State librarian by appointment of the Governor, under the provisions of force regulating the appeintments by the Governor. A woman is eligible to the office of assistant physician of the Georgia State Sanitarium; and females, resident of the county for four years preceding, may be appointed to hold any office in the children's courts." Acts 1896, p 40; 1897, p 110; 1898, p 1107; Penal Code, Sec. $99.

29. No women are on boards of control of State charitable institutions. 30. No law that women matrons, physicians or nurses be employed in public institutions having the custody of women and girls.

33. The Legislature enacted a tenhour law July 27, 1911. 36 and 39. No law defining bastardy and pandering as such. 37. Seduction is a crime with punishment at labor in the penitentiary for not less than two nor more than twenty years. Prosecution may be stopped by marriage of the parties. 40. Women and aliens and disfranchised negroes also can not vote at “white primaries."

PURSUING SUFFRAGE UNDER DIFFICULTIES

ampaigning in Wisconsin in ley Weather — interest Unexpectedly Great—People Travel Many Miles to Attend Suffrage Meetings

After repeated requests frem our chairmen in different parts of the State that they might be favored with speakers, the president of the Wisconsin Woman Suffrage Association, with Miss Harriet Grim of Chicago and Mrs. Edith Webster of North Milwaukee, set forth to hold a series of meetings for the appointment of committees to interview voters and otherwise prepare for the election in 1912.

Our interest in the cause was fairly put to the test when at starting the thermometer showed 18 below zero, and a brisk west wind blowing, and during the entire succeeding week the thermometer hovered between 20 and 30 below, and continued to fall until we reached the coldest point, at Sparta, on the 12th inst., where it was 52 below. But in spite of this weather our afternoon reception at the home of Mrs. Hemstock, in Sparta, was attended by some 50 or 60 finelooking women who seemed sreatly interested in the cause, and in the evening the school hall was well filled. At other places we found the people equally interested. At Randolph, where the weather was intensely cold and a bitter wind blowing, one woman walked a mile to attend an after noon meeting held as a supplement to the meeting of the previous evening. Fortunately, althougsh so very cold, there was a bright moon and the evenings were bright and beautiful. When we left Randolph, having to wait at the station some time for a delayed train, we were entertained by music, and at last when the train pulled out we left a company of youns Welshmen whistling, singing and dancing on the depot platform. The Welshmen will all vote for woman suffrage.

ADVERTISEMENTS CLASSIFIED

ADVERTISEMENTS CLASSIFIED

Are they made in sweatshops or under healthful conditions? All articles at The Label Shop have a label denoting a sanitary factory. DRESSES WAISTS PETTICOATS UNDERWEAR KIMONOS STOCKINGS, ete., etc. Call or send for price list. THE LABEL SHOP, 4 West 28th St., New York City. Incorporated by women. Managed by women for women.

iLLINOIS EQUAL SUFFRAGE ASSO. 938 Fine Arts Bids., Chicago, publishes the following Ierature: “Bridget's Sisters," a suffragce play; per copy........... 35c “Why," a two-page leaflet; per thousand........... $2.00 “Shall Men Vote?" leaflet, per thousand........... $2.50 Illinois Chronologsy, leaflet; per thousand....... $2.50 Mayors of Five States; per d Bible on Woman Suffrase: por eop. Laws of Illinois; per copy.. 10c “Mr. Lex," in paper covers; Mandsome crepe paper, yel low-bordered suffrage napkins; per thousand.... $4.00 Per hundred....50c

PRINTERS

7o Woman's Journal Readers— We beg to announce that we are printers of many well known publications, among them ““7he Woman's Journal." If you have booklet, a magazine or a book send it along. Open day and night.

r22 Pearl St., Boston, Mass.

PRIMROSE ORANGEPEKOE Everywhers Most Popular DURE 20 cents and this PACKAGE coupon will buy a regular 362 can at E your grocer's or al 5 Commercial Whf., Boston

INVESTMENTS

MANY intelligent women in the vicinity of BOSTON and NEW YORK are investing their own surplus in our safe yet profitable shares. THE PAPER SHELL PECAN is becoming better known each day, as an article of diet and a substitute for meat. The DIXIE PECAN GROVES are in the SEC- OND YEAR of their growth and are said to be the FINEST in all Georgia. Let us send you “A Royal Income from the King of Nuts," a booklet which tells about the best income producer known.

W. DENNISON Sales Agent,

132 North Grove Street,

East Orange, N. J. ———

We have held meetings almost continuously since we started on Jan. 2, and usually with geod success. Even in places where the cause has recelved very little attention, the people have been responsive and ready to receive the message. As an instance of this, the other evening at Mondovi, the county seat of Buffalo County, people rode fifteen miles to attend the meeting, and expressed themselves as feeling well repaid. It is useless for men to say that women do not want the ballot when they so fifteen miles on a bitter cold winter night to attend a suffrage meetins.

We find more interest in the cause than we expected, and the interest seems to be growing. Of course, we do not see the opposition. The opponents of woman suffrage have usually been a little shy about showing themselves, but we should make a mistake if we assumed that there are no opponents. No such beneficent measure was ever carried without arousing the

——— varion sides reguls

regul 1h Wisco nmow, there glitter and trees with I feel right, sure which ence

A TOUR T0 AND THROUGH SWEDEN NORWAY

NIN

to see THE MIDNIGHT SUN by way of Scotiand and England. TOUR to leave New York, June ist, by the latest built steamship S. S. CAMERONIA. Special attractions in Sweden this year—The Olympic Games and the Singing Festival.

Tribu

Tribu

The a rece tieth Smith Woma also o tender womas Rev. poem:

Communications from intending travelers and information regarding this tour will be promptly answered, also estimates of trips to all parts of the world if wanted. Write for itineraries. Passenger and Tourist Agency 127 South Third Street Minneapolis, Minn.

LECTURE BUREAU

Brave Enroll well Your

Wrl. B. FEAKINS

With Earne Respo Recei

3 R O MI N E LATFO R EOPL E 21 West 4 eNew

Your By m To lo And la

ANNOUNCEMENTS Quaker City Office Supply Co. PHILADELPHIA, 39 South 10th St. Circular Letters, Cards, Announcements, Berkshire Typewriter Papers

Mothe The b When To rig As you To bri So sha For yo

of ce y Send 25 sheets of To bri So sha For yo LECTURE A p ine W peciall

LECTURE

A p ine W peciall called There your Your the How tion How k ly 8 He is him And w of y

An Inimitable i MAN, WOMAN'S EQUAL DRAMATIC PORTRAYAL OF SCENES FROM THE SENATE Delightful entertainment; full of laughs; especially interesting to men; convert-making. For circulars, terms and dates, address EMILY MONTAGUE BISHOP, 600 W. 192d St., New York City

The of the read;

LAUNDRESS Swedish woman, expert in fine hand laundry, would like a few private families' laundry work. Address Box 303, Woman's Journal Office.

All hai youn By so prais The L souls To bles with Like t mer Ninety On of

—————————————— The L. souls To bles Mention THE WOMAN'S ike t JOURNAL When Patroniz- mer Ninety ing Our Advertisers and on o Patronize our Advertisers If Like t arise You Would Stand by The Tower f OURNAL.

Like th arise Toweri of th But st them And le head

hostility of “vested interests" of one kind or another, and we may be sure that the forces of evil are not sleeping. Not only eternal vigilance, but eternal perseverance is the price of liberty, so we must work on to the end, next November.

Her he gold Califer love! She ha afar The li hem's

Here in Menomonie, Dunn County, we are being handsomely entertained by Mr. and Mrs. Henry E. Knapp at their exquisite home. This is a place known as the seat of the Stout Manual Training School, and also of the fine building, the “Mabel Tainter Memorial The place has for many years been a center of free thought and progressive ideas. Here for a number of years lived and labored Professor Maxom, one of the truest and most cultured men Wisconsin has ever known. There are several institutions of learning here; Miss Grim will doubtless address some of them. She has been very successful in addressing Normal Schools, Civie Leagues, and other gatherings in the

The fri old, In the Judit Every cross Tis ref some And the to my Bidding appea

In the Ward Shone t set fo Her fri her ne And sh steadf

--- page 7 ---
various places alons our route, be sides doing most effective work at the regular suffrage meetings.

1 have always thought Northern wisconsin beautiful in summer, but ow, with the snow piled up here and there and the whole wide expanse giittering with 10,000 icy diamonds, and the purple haze resting on the trees along the ridges contrasting with the dark green of the pine trees, I feel that Northern wisconsin is “all right," winter or summer, and I am sure we shall get a good vote up here which will offset some of the indifference in other parts of the State. Olvymbia Brown.

NINETY BEAUTIFUL YEARS HONORED BY HOME ? CLUB Tributes to President of East Boston Suffrage League

The Home Club of East Boston at a recent meeting celebrated the ninetieth birthday of Mrs. Judith W. Smith, President of the East Boston Woman Suffrage League, and a pillar also of this club. There were many tender tributes to this rare and noble woman, including several in verse. Rev. Ada C. Bowles sent the following poem: Mrs. Bowles's Poem Brave bearer of a noble name, nrolled on Judah's scoll of fame, Well have you worn from youth to age Your name, nor shamed its heritage

With heart of gold and dauntless will Earnest life's duties to fulfill, Responsive meeting every call, Receiving much, and siving all. Your home a kingdom wisely ruled By mated parents, children schooled To love the right, the wrong to feel And labor for the common weal. Mother of Mothers, may you see The better nation that shall be When barriers of sex and race To right and justice yield their place As you have labored through the years To bring that day though toil and tears So shall the triumph be your own, For you shall reap as you have sown

A poem by her niece, Miss Catherine Wilde, gratified Mrs. Smith especially, because one verse of it recalled her good husband: There was one whom you loved in your maidenhood's prime, Your lover, your helper through all the hard time. How one with your thought in all action he stood, How kindly, how faithful, how modestly good He is with us in heart, though we see him no more, And welcomes us here as he once did of yore.

hand fami- 303,

All hail to “Aunt Judith," now 90 years young! By some bard far more sifted her praise should be suns. The Lord now and then sends such souls to our earth, To bless us with wisdom and cheer us with mirth. Like the sun of a beautiful, long summer day, Ninety beautiful years have shed light on our way.

'S zad If he

Like the peaks of the Alps her ideals arise, Towering lofty and grand in the blue of the skies, But steadfast good sense is beneath them outspread. And level as rich Western prairies her head! Her heart holds a wealth all earth's gold mines above, Califernia's even, that State which we love! has led us all higher, we following afar The light of her spirit, like Bethlehem's star.

fone sure sleep- , but oe of o the

ounty, ained pp at place Manutthe r Memany ought for a bored truest in has insti- Grim them. in ad- Civie in the

The friend of my father and mother of old, In the core of my heart dear “Aunt Judith" I hold. Every time that the thought of her crosses my mind, Tis refreshing and good as the wholesome sea wind, And the name of East Boston is sweet to my ear, Bidding her and her house to mv fancy appear.

in the galaxy brilliant where jJulia Ward Howe Shone the bright central star, that has set for us now, Her friend Mrs. Howe always wanted her near, And she beamed with a lustre mild, steadfast and clear.

THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL, FEBRUARY 3, 1912

Sho has chilaren her sreat reforms on their wall to success. As a soldier in grim antislavery strife, As grandmother, mother and As a member of clubs and a wise, loyal friend, In her, endless titles to reverense blend. For two hours, on election day, not long ago, She stood where the voters streamed past in a row, And gave suffrage leaflets to all who would take them. Now isn't she plucky, and good as they make them? Too great are her merits for pen or for tongue, Our friend who today is just 90 years young! May she stay with us lons, and her warm vital spark Glow and shine till she reaches the century mark!

NEW HAMPSHIRE NOTES

Suffrage is Attracting More Attention Than All Other Questions—Anna Shaw to Speak

Mrs. Winston Churchill, acting for the Cornish Suffrage League, has booked Miss Shaw for Lebanon, Newport and Claremont, for March 1, 2 and 3. Mrs. Churchill is very active, and is conducting frequent meetings. She recently ordered a package of Journals for one of them, and only this week ordered 100 Journals of the current issue for another.

Hon. H. H. Metcalf writes: “The suffrage campaign is now well under way, and will be energetically pushed till the Constitutional Convention meets. “As the time for the choice of dolegates approaches, the suffrage question is receiving greater attention ameong the people than any or all others, the Granges of the State, in particular, taking the matter up for discussion.

“Since the organization of the Campaign Committee of the New Hampshire W. S. A., Miss Mary N. Chase, president and State organizer, has been actively at work, her latest efforts having been directed to arousing suffrage sentiment in Nashua, the second city in size in the State, and generally regarded as an unpromising field for a progressive movement. She spent several days setting about among the pecple, addressing several gatherings in the city and the adjoining town of Hudson, and arranging for a public meeting in the City Hall, which came off Jan. 24.

“The audience exceeded expectations as to numbers, especially as the weather was bitterly cold. Some two or three hundred of the most intelligent women in the city, with a small sprinkling of the male element, were present. Gen. Elbert Wheeler, one of the most prominent and influential citizens of Nashua, presided, and gave convincing reasons for the faith that is in him. Miss Chase spoke briefly, but with point and emphasis. The principal address was by Rev. Ida C. Hultin of Sudbury, Mass. and was one of the most forceful, logical and unanswerable arguments ever given in the State in behalf of this cause. It was heard with the deepest interest, and heartily applauded. Three local clergymen sat on the platform, and one of them—Rev. W. H. Morrison of the Universalist Church—followed Miss Hultin with vigorous words of sympathy.

“This meeting will be followed by another, later in the campaign, and a good showing for the cause may be looked for in Nashua when the test comes. “Miss Chase has a meeting arranged for in Bedford Feb. 1, and has several engagements to speals at Grange meetings in the immediate future.

“The State papers are giving liberal space, and many seem favorably inclined. The Nashua Telegraph gave generous notices before the meeting there, and devoted several columns the following day to a very fair report. in which Miss Hultin's address was characterized as 'one of the most eloquent and forceful ever heard on a public platform in this city."

The Campaigsn Committee of the Concord E. S. A. is very active. A well attended meeting in Manchester on January 24, was addressed by Mrs.

Stanley McCormick of Boston and Mrs. Bancroft, wife of Dr. Bancroft of the Concord State Hospital. Mrs. Bancroft has served for many years on the Concord School Board. She has also done much for the hospital and for charities in the New Hampshire State Capital. Mrs. Agnes M. Jenks presided. Much literature was distributed.

Dr. George Cox, Professor of Philosophy at Dartmouth College, spoke at Dover on January 30, Mrs. Jenks presiding. The numbers and enthusiasm led to the meeting being held in the large Unitarian Church. Many of the best women in Dover are interested. The committee for getting up the meeting was Mrs. William F. Mason, Mrs. Susan Woodman, and Miss Alice Folsom. A larger committee included Mrs. Daniel Hall, Mrs. Elizabeth Sawyer, and some half dozen other ladies of social prominence.

Mrs. Winston Churchill and Mrs. enks addressed meetings in Claremont and Plainfield, Jan. 31 and Feb. 1.

A meeting will be held in Concord on Feb. 6, at the home of Mrs. Armenia S. White. Judge Charles R. Corning and Mrs. Stanley McCormick will speak. — —— A CAPABLE PRESIDENT Sketch of Miss Ada L. James

Miss Ada L. James, president of the Political Equality League of Wisconsin, comes of an equal suffrage family, and has been brought up to believe in votes for women as in a religion. Her father, Senator David G. James of Richland Center, introduced into the last Wisconsin Lesgislature the bill submitting woman suffrage 'o a referendum of the people and more than any other member, perhaps, was responsible for the passage of the bill.

Her mother, who died several years ago, was a charter member of the Wisconsin Suffrage Association and an active worker. “Susan B, Anthony, Elizabeth Cady Stanton and many other pioneer sufragists came to our little city when I was a small child," says Miss James. "I went to suffrage conventions with my mother and my grandmother."

For twelve years Miss James has been active in club work in her city, and has served on various committees of the State Federation of Women's clubs. For four years she has been chairman of the Civics Committee of the State Federation. She has also become actively interested in settlement work, child labor, social purity, prison reform and industrial conditions, and has joined several national societies which aim to promote better conditions in these several lines.

In 1909 Miss James went abroad and traveled in England and on the continent. She taught school for a brief time in her home city, but since her mother's death has been housekeeper for her father. When the Political Equality League was started as an active campaign organization, Miss James was naturally placed at its head, and has shown herself a remarkably capable and resourceful manager, while her sweet temper and kindly tact have wen golden opinions from all who have come into contact with her.

“It was famillarity with existing conditions, municipal, State and national, that made woman's enfranchisement a religion with me," said Miss James. “The work my mother did in trying to get the age of consent raised from 12 to 16 years, only to have the next Legislature lower it to 14—familiarity with legislation affecting the welfare of the homes, and children,— make me want to see the mother instinct made a direct influence in our national housekeeping."

Mrs. Bertha Hirsch Baruch gave probably the first address on “Woman's Citizenship" in California after enfranchisement was sranted. She delivered it before the Arts and Crafts at Carmel-by-Sea, where she was a convalescent. The first study class in civics after the vote was won was aiso formed in “beautiful Carmel, the home of artists and lovers of nature." “Is there anything you can do better than anyone else?" “Yes," replied the small boy. “I kin read my own writing." There are others.

SUFFRAGE LITERATURE AND SUPPLIES —————— Order any of the following from NATIONAL SUFFRAGE 508 Fifth Avenue, New York of interest to Legisiators A revised and improved edition prepared especially for Legislatures where a suffrage bill is pend- A Suffrage Answer to An Anti-Suffrage Platform A new leafiet, in parallel columns. Every legislator should receive one this session ......... Per 100 25 Also good for general use............. Postpaid 30

of interest to Legisiators A revised and improved edition prepared especially for Legislatures where a suffrage bill is pendt A Suffrage Answer to An Anti-Suffrage Platform A new leafiet, in parallel columns. Every legislator should receive one this session ......... Per 100 25 Also good for general use............. Postpaid 30 LATEST PAMPHLETS

By Mrs. Harper The World Movement for Woman Suffrage ......... Postpaid How Six States Won Woman Suffrage .............. Postpaid By Mrs. Porritt The Causes of the Revolt of the Women in England.. Postpaid The Militant Suffrage Movement in England .......... Postpaid The Political Duties of Mothers .............. Postpaid vetes and 0. Postpaid WHAT WOMEN MIGHT DO WITH THE BALLOT

LATEST LEAFLETS “The Ladies Battle" An Answer to Molly Elliott Seawell By Alice Stone Blackwell Mrs. Howe's Census Extracts from a Canvass of the Clergy in the Suffrage States Gains in Equal Suffrage A Table Showing the Progress in the Past Eighty Years

Rainbow Fliers in German ........Per 100 15 2 The New America Per copy Per 10 Suffrage Song Used in the California Campaign o1 Postpaid .02 8 CALENDARS A Woman's Calendar Quotations from Master Minds Printed in brown and gold, 30 per cent. discount on orders of 12 or more................ 50 Postpaid 54 English Santa Claus Calendar Gay color and pretty sentiment............. .15 Postpaid 20 PENNANTS Yellow felt with white letters Per do Large size 12x30 inches................ 50 5.4 25 2.4

Quotations from Master Minds Printed in brown and gold, 30 per cent. discount on orders of 12 or more............... 50 Postpaid 54 English Santa Claus Calendar Gay color and pretty sentiment............. .15 Postpaid 20 PENNANTS Yellow felt with white letters P Large size 12x30 inches................ 50 25

Quotations from Master Minds Printed in brown and gold, 30 per cent. on orders of 12 or more............ English Santa Claus Calendar Gay color and pretty sentiment..... PENNANTS Yellow felt with white letters Large size 12x30 inches............ l THE NEW STICKER or SEAL. VOTE

An adaptation of the design showing Liberty welcoming the new star— California. Use them on all your letters and parcels. Neatly put up in oiled paper books of 100. Price, per book ........... $0.75 Price, 10 books ............. 5.00 Singly ...1 Cont Each

Sorl rTsnre eIis o A NEW KIND OF SUFFRAGE BADGE They stick tight Wherever they light, Try them and see. dood as Favors at Fairs, Luncheons and Teas, or to sell at meetings. Two for Five cents. $2.00 per 100. Postpaid $2.20 per 100.

NEW PICTURE POSTER

Liberty welcoming the sixth star.

ror adqvertsing meecungs Space left for date and place. Size 36 x 42 in. Printed in purple, green and white Price, singly—l10c. Postpaid—.15 Per doz.—$1.,00 Postpaid—$1.25

Prejudice battling with Justice.... An artistic picture issued by the Artists' Suffrage League. Price ... Five Cents Each

VOTES FOR WOMEN NOTE

inty colors in dainty box PALE BLUE Lettered in silver PALE YELLOW Lettered in gold. 6oc Per Box Postpaid

Good as decoration. They are gay and yellow and each is tied with a votes for women ribbon. s

NEW SIiX STAR BUTT One cent each. 75 cents per 100. Postpaid 85 cents per 100.

Votes for Women Paper Napkins Just the Thing for Teas, Luncheons, Etc. Decorated with a Blue “Votes for Women" Border Order now Price 35 cents per 100, post pald.

Votes for Women Rubber Stamps Letters this size —VOTES FOR WOMEN — The easiest way in which you can advertise the cause. Stamp every letter you write this year.

PHOTOCRAPH CALLERY of EMINENT SUFFRACISTS

Price 15 cents, post pald. SLIDE LECTURES

An interesting collection of portraits, mounted on canvas, all ready for hanging as a temporary exhibition.

65 Suffrage Pictures with typewritten lecture to accompany them. Can be delivered by any one.

The gallery may be rented to any suffrage association for the nominal fee of $1.00 plus expressage.

Rent of slides and lecture, $5 plus expressage. Special rates by the week or month.

A Woman's Calendar

Postpaid Per 100 15 20

VOTES FOR WOMEN

NEW POST CARD

ENCLISH POST CARDS

CALIFORNIA POPPIES

$1.50 Per Dozen

39

Per Per Copy Doz. o1 10 02 12 05 50 06 54 03 30 04 34 .03 30 04 34 o1 10 02 14 o1 10 02 13

HH

--- page 8 ---
40

SAID LOVE TO THE YOUNG KNIGHT By Theodore Roberts Said Love to the youns knight: “I am the spur and the prize. I am the hand of thy squire and the light in thy lady's eyes. I am the force of thy arm that is more than of sinew and bone. I am the favor of Arthur smiling down from his throne.

“I am the spirit of Christ, white and high as a star. 1 am the crown of Mary, outlasting the helmets of war. I am courage, and peace—valor and gentleness. 1 am the master of pride and the servant of distress." Said Love to the young knight: “I am the humble task. 1 am the high adventure behind the visored mask. 1 am the fire of youth that fails not with the years. 1 am the master of passion and comforter of tears." —Scribner's Magazine.

GINA KROG HONORED

Twenty-fifth Anniversary of Her Paper Brings Greetings to Norwegian Suffrage Editor From All Over the World

A reception was held in Christiania on Jan. 25 to celebrate the 25th anniversary of the Norwegian women's paper, “Nylaende." Mrs. Elizabeth Lange Aus writes: "During all these years Miss Gina Krog has been its faithful and untiring editer, and Nylaende' has been a sreat factor in gaining so many victories for the Norwegian women. The reception in her honor was to express the gratitude of Norwegian women to Miss Krog for having devoted her life to our cause."

Many organizations affiliated with the Weman's National Council of Norway took part in the celebration, and letters and telegrams of congratulation were received from all parts of the world. It is not too late for good wishes to be sent by women in America, where Miss Krog left a very pleasant impression. Letters may be addressed to her in care of Norsk Kvindesaksforening, 19 Wergelands-veien, Christiania, Norway.

Miss Krog has lived to see municipal suffrage granted to all the women of Norway, and full Parliamentary suffrage to three-fifths of them, with the prospect that Parliamentary suffrage also will soon be made universal. The legal and educational position of women has likewise been revclutionized. She has lent a strong hand to help bring all this to pass. The Woman's Journal extends its heartiest congratulations.

THE CHILDREN'S BUREAU

The Children's Bureau is again under discussion in Congress. It would gather and publish data Vearing on the welfare of children. For seven years women and sociologists have been trying to secure the establishment of a Children's Bureau, The long delay in getting it, and the efforts to cripple the bill by amendments, are a striking commentary on the need of votes for women. Senators Werks and Pomerene moved amendments to limit the circulation of the bureau's reports.

Senator Bailey attacked the bill on constitutional grounds, and criticised Senator Borah's “efforts to put children on a level with pigs." “The effort is to raise them to the level of pigs," responded Mr. Borah. Mr. Borah has contended that the government expenditure of millions for information concerning the condition of hogs and cattle justifies the much smaller appropriation asked for the children's bureau.

Mr. Bailey said it was “mere faddism," and that there was even too much legislation in the interest of livestock, adding that, at the present rate, “we will soon be sending a schoolmaster into every district." “According to Col. Watterson, that is just what you are about to do," Mr. Borah rejoined. Mr. Bailey replied that “his part of the party" had no such intention.

Senator Overman of North Carolina criticised reports of child labor inves tigators. Some of these reports, he said, were obscene. “They told of children chewing tobacco," said he

THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL, EEBRUARY 3, 1912 “Wasn't there a strons opposition reputable father, because, in the eyes to that investigation from the cotton of the law, you are not a person. mill owners of the State?" demanded “Mrs. T. A. Coleman sang the suffra- All 0ld Senator Dixon. gist sons, Happy Day, written by Mr. Overman said he had not heard Charlotte Perkins Gilman, to the tune of it. of Dixie. The women joined in the

The Journal of Education, commenting upon a previous unsuccessful effort to get a Children's Bureau, quoted a statement by Secretary Wilson of the department of agriculture that he had at his command 3,000 of the best experts, always ready to be sent out in answer to any need. The ourne of Education added:

“A Nebraska woman says that her husband is raising hoss, and she is trying to raise a boy. If one of her husband's hogs gives him trouble all he has to do is to write to the government, and it will send him many publicaticns on the welfare of hoss. The government will write him personal letters about his hos, and if the trouble with the porker is persistent the gsovernment will send a highpriced expert there to study the hog's welfare. This comes perilously near encroaching upon the State's right to look after the welfare of that hog, but the danger of encroachment on State rights dces not interfere with an appropriation of $13,000,000 for the welfare of weevils, weeds, etc. This Nebraska woman says that when her boy causes her trouble, as he often does, and she does not know what to do with him any more than her husband knew what to do with his hog, and his welfare needs attenticn, the government has not a single book or pamphlet to send her, has no specialist to write her about her boy's needs, no expert to send out there to study his welfare. She says it may be as serious a matter for her boy to become a bad man as for her husband to lose his hog."

ANTIS ARE SHY GAME EVEN IN TEXAS

an Antonio Lady Seeks in Vain to Get Any Man to Speak Against Votes for Women

The South has been looked upon as the stronghold of conservatism on woman suffrage, but the movement is making rapid progress there. The San Antonio (Tex.) Express says: “If the men of San Antonio doubt that the cause cf woman's suffrage is knocking loudly at their doors clamoring for admission, they need but have peeped into the windows of the Woman's Clubhouse yesterday afternmoon, where Miss Anna Maxwell Jones gave a comprehensive talk on that subject to the Woman's Club.

“The speaker was listened to with close attention and accorded hearty applause at nearly all of her periods. That she made a profound impression no one could doubt.

“Mrs. M. J. Bliem, president of the club, made a brief appeal to the women to think seriously on the question. “Miss Marin B. Fenwick, in a short humorous talk, told cf her attempt to obtain an anti-suffragist speaker for the afternoon, as had been requested by Miss Jones. She said she thought the speaker should be a man and there would be little difficulty in securing one. She first rang up Marshall Hicks, and was told that all the Hicks family were suffragists, but that Dr. T. T. Jackson was an able orator and would undoubtedly be glad to talk on that subject. 'Why, said Dr. Jackson, when lccated, 'I am an ardent suffragist; you had better try Judge T. D. Cobbs. Judge Cobbs pleaded guilty of being an anti, but said his court duties would prevent his coming. He suggested Judge S. J. Brooks. Judge Brooks replied: Now, 1 am on the fence and three-fourths over; so if I went to that meeting would be all over. Better try John Boyle. Mr. Boyle indignantly denied being an anti, but mentioned S. G. Tayloe, whom he knew to be one. Mr. Tayloe was called up, and while he openly proclaimed himself an anti, bessed to be excused because of sick ness in his family.

““At that I gave up, said Miss Fenwick, and decided that anti-suffragists were too scarce or too timid to be caught in San Antonio. “Mrs. Lewis Krams-Beck said she had been on the fence until she read in a paper of an Enslish judge. who refused to give a worthy mother the custody of her children from a dis-

reputable father, because, in the eyes of the law, you are not a person. “Mrs. T. A. Coleman sang the suffrasist sons, Happy Day, written by Charlotte Perkins Gilman, to the tune of Dixie. The women jomed in the chorus, at first feebly, but by the time the second verse was concluded a hearty, full chorus save feeling voice to the words."

HOLDS FIRST PLACE

o Other Public Question in Wisconsin Calls Out Such interest as Votes For Women

Woman Suffrage is the most widely discussed subject in Wisconsin at present. This is shown, says the University of Wisconsin Press Bulletin, by statistics of the package libraries of the department of debating and public discussion of the university extension division. During December there were four times as many calls for information regarding woman suffrage from this department as there were regarding any other subject. Thirty package libraries on votes for women were in circulation in the State during the month. The initiative and referendum was the second in demand, commission form of city government, third; immigration, fourth; the parcels post, fifth; and the income tax, sixth.

On Jan. 15, forty package libraries on equal suffrage were in circulation, and on the following day ten more calls came, making a total of fifty libraries circulating at that date.

“WOMEN ARE WOMEN"

New Answer to an Old Argument

The New York Evening Post comments thus upon Ida Tarbell's statement that what is good for man is not likely to be good for women, because she is different, subtly, wonderfully, bafflingly different."

“Well, if we admit that the ence is bamiins, why not admit that we are baffled? Why not acknowledge that a difference so elusive is not a thing from which we can draw inferences for the guidance of our conduct? After all, even the most faithful believer in the mystical feminine will draw the line somewhere, will grant that there are some activities which are unaffected by sex. It was long ago observed that we eat our breakfasts as human beings, not as men and women. Men are men, and wemen are women, is Mr. Asquith's eloquent refrain. True; but breakfasts are breakfasts, and is not politics politics?"

HUMOROUS

“Miss Fanny, is that a langwidse that man's talking?" “Yes, Rose; he is a German, and he is studying Enslish. “Why, Miss Fanny, ye don't have to study English; ye jes' opens your mouth and talks!"

Lincoln once told a distinguished New Yorker that he was thinking of taking Seward, Chase and Cameron, all of whom had opposed him, into his Cabinet. The New Yorker said, “They will eat you up." The President-elect replied, with great solemnity, “No, 1 think they will eat each other up."

A weman missionary in China was taking tea with a mandarin's eight wives. The Chinese ladies examined her clothing, her hair, her teeth, and so on, but her feet especially amazed them. “Why," cried one, "you can walk and run as well as a man!" “Yes, to be sure," said the missionary. “Can you ride a horse and swim, too?" “Yes." “Then you must be almost as stroeng as a man!" “I1 am." “And you wouldn't let a man beat you—not even if he was your husband —would you?" “Indeed I wouldn't," the missionary said. The mandarin's eight wives looked at one another, nodding their heads. Then the oldest said, softly: “Now I understand why the foreisn devil never has more than one wife. He is afraid!”

An 0ld Man's Vengeance

A Home Woman's Partmership of Fifty Years with a Noted Public Man Shows That She Was His Partner in Work Only, Having No Income of Her Own and at His Death Cut Off with a Pittance Because She Would Not Give Place to His Mistress

college, founder scholarship, philanthropist" are some of the words used by “Who's Who in America"in describing a man who even in death was determined to “get even with" his wife of fifty years who was unwilling to yield her position to his mistress.

His friends knew him as a noble man, handsome, pleasant, gallant, kindly, charitable. She was recognized as gracious, fine-looking, a superior woman “who carried herself like a duchess.". For nearly fifty years she had kept house for him, had administered his household economically, waited on him and planned for his every comfort. From the beginning he had earned a good salary and had spent lavishly wherever he went. She never had had the services of a maid even in her old age and had never had even “carriage money."

She had helped him uphold the dignity of his position for nearly fifty years, yet in his will he cuts her off with a pittance, leaving her only the smallest possible amount of money that would keep her from contesting his will, and giving her a life tenure in her home, but providing no means for maintaining it.

At the time of his funeral she had no bank account of her own, and was actually obliged to borrow for her funeral black. Until his estate was finally settled, she was obliged to borrow money to live on. When she received a copy of the will she was shocked and horrified to find that all the property he had accumulated during their married life was willed to his parents, and she was left in humiliation and ignominy to live out the rest of her old age as best she might.

Why did this respected public man cut off his wife, willing his property to those who did not need it, and leaving her in virtual poverty? First, because she had refused to grant him a divorce in his bld age, when he wanted to get rid of her and take to himself a young woman. He had no grounds for getting a divorce from her. She had ample grounds for getting a divorce from him, but refused to ask for it, for the simple reasons that in her old age she had no means of livelihood, that she could not face the disgrace of divorce, and that she clung to the lover of her youth who had promised to protect and cherish her.

Second, because the laws of the State were made in the interests of men and not in the interests of women; because, according to the laws of his State, his wifs, did not have an equal interest in their property; because what should have been their joint property was his property, and he could do practically as he pleased with it. In other words, this woman found herself in her old age in practical poverty and humiliation for the simple reason that Votes for Women are not in operation in that State, but a double standard of morals is in operation, and laws making for the inferiority and helplessness of women are in operation.

Everybody who has worked for Votes for Women knows that the hardest kind of woman to reach with the significance of woman suffrage is the woman in the home, the woman who has a husband to represent her in politics, to vote for her, to protect her, to look after her interests. She is the one who usually says she is not interested.

Everybody knows, too, that the most helpless woman is the woman in the home when she loses her husband. No type of woman is so indifferent to Votes for Women, and doubtless no type of woman is in more need of Votes for Women. Also, no type of woman is more numerous. Her need, her indifference and her numbers, therefore, make it imperative that, if we take Votes for Women to no other class of women in the country, we should take it to the home woman. How to do it? That is the question. Can we not bring the subject home to her by showing her. through such cases as the foregoing, that, if she does not meet with a similar fate, she and her mother, her sisters and her daughters, it is not because the laws protect her. and not because she does not need a vote?

Is there any wrong being done to women and girls which you would like dealt with? Send us the facts. We shall not use your name. But sign your name and address. We may want to write to you.

OLLEGE graduate, admitted to bar, practiced, member of common council, commissioner on revision of city charter, corporation counsel of city, member of rapid transit commission, associate justice superior court, trustee savings bank, trustee

Agnes E. Ryan

Agnes E. Ryan
