--- page 1 ---
THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL

VOL. XLIll NO. 7

WILSON ON SUFFRAGE

WILSON ON SUFFRAGE

of on al of ay up ed 's ve all ild nt leof he ve

Candidate for President Says He Has Not Made Up His Mind Yet

Miss Edith M. Whitmore, chairman in Richmond borough of the Woman Suffrage Party of New York, wrote recently to Gov. Woodrow Wilson of New Jersey, asking his views on suffrage. This is the Governor's reply:

My Dear Madam: Allow me to acknowledge with real appreciation your letter of January 31, in which you put me a very difficult question. I can only say that my own mind is in the midst of the debate which it involves. I do not feel that I am ready to utter any confident judgment as yet about it. I am honestly trying to work my way toward a just conclusion.

in ill. ey ey esof of ere is

Cordially and sincerely yours, Woodrow Wilson.

Gov. Wilson may be perfectly honest in what he writes, but his enemies will surely charge him with attempting to “straddle." It would have paid him as a presidential candidate to study the question and make up his mind, one way or the other; for everybody likes pluck, and despises what looks like dodging.

at arhe ay ly lisay n's

Taft, Roosevelt and Wilson are all “betwixt and between" on this question. LaFollette alone nas a clear opinion about votes for women; and he is not a bit afraid to declare it.

libion ery uld thend re-

LINCOLN DAY KEPT

Michigan Suffragists Make It Starting Point of Vigorous Campaign for Votes for Women

aus ses, orOthe ent ases ies. tter, ited an and ituto tors tion hey the d or

The beginning of a strenuous year's campaign to prepare a telling appeal to the State Legislature to submit a suffrage amendment to the constit tion to popular vote, has been put on foot by the suffragists of Detroit. All efforts were directed towards making Lincoln's birthday a sreat influence for the cause, and mass meetings were arranged in different parts of the city, with a big mass meeting in the of Our Father in the evening.

Club women, women in stores and factories, church workers and the general public were all appealed to through thousands of dodgers stating the stand Lincoln took on the subject. Pointing out that Louisa M. Alcott was a suffragist, arrangements were made with the Garrick theatre to distribute dodgers at the Saturday er formance of “Little Women."

took hat bad nmow ings, strire-

Among the speakers of the day were Warren S. Blauvelt, secretary of the Michigan League of Suffrage Societies; Mrs. Huntly Russell, vice-president of the State Association; Miss Clara E. Dyer, chairman of the Detroit League; James Schermerhorn, Representative Flowers and Rev. Lee S. McCollester.

othinto ring rs in estgress that

COLORADO WOMEN CELEBRATE FEB. 15 They Commemorate Susan B. Anthony's Birthday with Three Governors of Suffrage States as Guests of Honor

y24, ages and there n the om-

According to their annual custom the Colorado Equal Suffrage Associa tion celebrated Miss Anthony's birthday by a banquet on Feb. 15, in Den ver, at the Savoy hotel.

and now beone- 0 do Chil-

Mrs. Harriet G. R. Wright presided. and Mrs. Dewey C. Bailey was toast mistress. The honor guests were Governor and Mrs. James Hawley of Idaho former Governor and Mrs. Ben B. Brooks of Wyomins, Governor and Mrs. Shafroth of Colorado and Mayor and Mrs. Robert W. Speer of Denver.

girls We dress.

As The Woman's Journal goes to press, the Suffrage Fair in New York City is in full swins. Next week we hope to report it a great success, with large profits.

Official Organ of the National American Woman Suffrage Association

BOSTON, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1912

CELEBRATING LINCOLN'S BIRTHDAY

o O ? O o 3 o J or ad SSharing the ec viteges of t h 3 da S S S ordens no means” excludtn 7 imins— m Lincoln t ) o o

Spirit of Lincoln: it's all very well to honor my memory, gentiemen, but what are YOU going to do about the great cause 1 championed?

Spirit of Lincoln: it's all very well to honor my memory, gentiemen, but what are YOU going to do about the great cause 1 championed?

PURE FOOD AND EQUAL SUFFRAGE

Many Novel Features at Philadelphia Food Exhibit—Opening Address by Mrs. Blankenburg—Suffrage Booth Draws Greatest Interest of the Fair Interest in pure food and interest in suffrage were blended in Philadelphia last week, where the pure food exhibition opened with suffrage speeches sandwiched in between snatches of sample foods, and women prominent in the suffrage movement vied with pretty demonstrators in handing out suffrage leaflets to match the distribution of advertisements.

“The show was formally opened by Director Porter, who referred to the woman's part in the selection of food and to the average man's ignorance of the topic," says the Philadeiphia North American, “and by Mrs. Rudolph Blankenburs, who explained the fitness of exponents of suffrage appearing at such an exhibition, by declaring that as long as politics enter the home via avenues of the food supply, the woman who centrols the home should have some say in politics.

“Everything was marked with the suffrage brand. Merchants stuck suffrage flags over their booths, adopted suffrage slogans, got out suffrage ads, and even decorated themselves with the yellow streamers of the fair advocates of the ballot. A portly cook plastered a yellow sash over his white coat, and then handed out samples of suftrage coffee. A firm which sells relishes printed a suffrage blotter depicting a dilapidated specimen of a man, and a woman scornfully to him sayins, “If he can vote why (Continued on Page 51)

GRANGERS ARE AGAIN FOR EQUAL RIGHTS

New York and Michigan Farmers Stand by Women

The New York State Grange has again put itself on record for suffrage, at its meeting last week in Auburn. Secretary Giles said:

“We believe the one thing that has tended not only to the growth and influence of the Grange but to its high position in the affairs of the State is its recognition of the full equality of women. Their counsel and their advice have made a stronger organization of the Grange, and we believe that the Grange should emphasize this feature more and more; and, recognizing their value to the organization, we can easily see what their value would be to the State and nation if they were taken into full citizenship."

The Executive Committee of the Michigan State Grange at its recent meeting in Jackson adopted the following, introduced by Speaker Herbert F. Baker of the Legislature: “Resolved, That it is the sense of this executive committee that the Grange legislative committee shall cooperate with Equal Suffrage Associations and by other practical means endeavor to secure the submission by the next Legislature of an amendment to the State constitution providing for equal suffrage."

One may see, even if he is not a very observant person, that the masculine mind in Oregon has become wonderfully receptive to the equal-suffrage idea since the revolution and the revelation in the State of California— Portland (Ore.) Telegram.

KANSAS LABOR MEN AND CLUB WOMEN UNITE

qual Suffrage Amendment Is Endorsed by Numerous influential Bodies

Mrs. Lucy B. Johnston, president of he Kansas E. S. A., writes

“We are receiving endorsements from many of our State organizations, the latest being from the State Federation of Labor, which recently met in Topeka. We are hoping to secure the cooperation of every organization of women in Kansas. The State Federation of Women's Clubs, comprising about 7,000 women, has endorsed us in each of the eight Congressional District Federations. The W. C. T. U., 10,000 strong, have pledged, through their president, loyal cooperation, and the local unions are shoulder to shoulder with our central organizations in the counties, and are most valuable helpers in the precinct work."

A MILLION WOMEN

Somewhere near 1,000,000 women will vote for Presidential electors this year. These women are in Washinston, Idaho, Wyoming, Utah, Colorado and California. They will cast considerably more than the total vote for Andrew Jackson in 1824. The sreatly increased number of women enjoyins the suffrage adds another interesting feature to a Presidential contest teeming with unusual characteristics.— New York Press.

The Milwaukee women celebrated Lincoln's birthday appropriately with a suffrage lecture by Beatrice Forbes Robertson.

TWENTY TO ONE

TWENTY TO ONE

Woman Suffrage is Favorably Reported in Ohio Constitutional Convention by Overwhelming Majority— Women Are Jubllant

The Committee on Woman Suffrage of the Ohio Constitutional Convention has reported in favor of woman suffrage, by a vote of twenty to one. The good news is announced in a telegram received just as The Woman's Journal is going to press, from Mrs. Harriet Taylor Upton and Miss Elizabeth J. Hauser. Their dispatch closes with the words, “The women owe everlasting gratitude to Chairman Kilpatrick and the Committee."

The hearing on woman suffrage at Columbus last week was the most successful hearing thus far held during the Ohio Constitutional Convention, and the only one attended by every member of a committee. Not only were the 21 men of the Committee on Woman Suffrage all in their seats, but the Constitutional Convention adjourned in the afternoon and many of its members crowded in to the hearing and stood for hours, every seat being full.

Women came from different parts of the State, women of all ages and occupations. “Gray-haired grandmothers, pink-cheeked maidens, dignified, scholarly club women, working sgirls, college professors, shep workers, farm managers and stenographers all gathered,' says the Cleveland Plain Dealer. A large delegation of youns women representing the Woman Suffrage Party came down from Cleveland. Mrs. Harriet Taylor Upton introduced the speakers. Among them were Miss Edith Peck of Cincinnati, Mrs. Anna Anthony Bacon and Mrs. Arnold Green of Cleveland, Mrs. Ross Reed of Akron, Miss Sackett of Lorain, Mrs. Emma S. Olds of Elyria, Miss Jeannette Eaton of Columbus, and Professor Emma Perkins, dean of the Women's College at Cleveland. Mrs. Pauline Steinem of Toledo pointed out that women, because they are not electors, are debarred under the present constitution of Ohio from being trustees of institutions for women and girls.

“In the great State of Ohio we are unable to have a woman member on a board of management of a girls' home, where any good woman could be of vast benefit to the State and of untold good to the unfortunate inmates," said Mrs. Steinen. “If women vote there will be fewer wars, fewer strikes, more justice and greater happiness."

“Rural women are just as deeply interested in the problems of the community as men and just as anxious to help in their solution," said Mrs. Lucy Beach, who has managed a big farm mear London, O., for a score of years. “Suffrage would mean a real partnership in financial matters, make women the best savings bank ever devised, and train the woman for business duties that any day may fall on her shoulders."

A few days later the Antis were given a hearing, and at its close the Committee voted twenty to one in favor of granting the petition of the Ohio W. S. A. that a suffrage amendment be submitted to the voters. An Ohio woman writes: “Of course the New York Antis had sent their literature, but our friends laugh at it. Elizabeth Hauser has done splendid work, and we are good friends with everybody." A presidential suffrage bill has been introduced in the Rhode Island Lesgislature.

This week Suffrage Clubs all over the country have been keeping Miss Anthony's birthday. How happy she must be if she can look back and see the great advance the cause has made during the past year!

—

--- page 2 ---
50

THE HE-MALE OF THE SPECIES

By Marion C. Smith

By Marion C. Smith

saw an o1 cow ranin o by a stream; er mouth was full of grasses and her eyes were full of dream. watched her tail, For Kipling says the female is more deadly than the male. But the day was warm and sultry, and while gazing at the cow, With a red bandanna handkerchief 1 wiped my heated brow, And—presto—came a raging bull, and drove me up a tree, For the he-male of that species is more deadly than the she. And when at last I got away, full well I used my less; 1 jumped a fence, and scared a hen who sat upon her egss. With cacklings wild she waddled off, 1 felt myself grow pale, For I feared the fearsome female that's more deadly than the male! : But the cock came running up, with wrath and ruffles on his brow; HMe saw another rooster, and he blamed him for the row; And the way they made the feathers fly was terrible to see, For the he-male of that species is more deadly than the she. Then a frenzied turkey gobbler sot mixed up in the fight, And I turned to leave the barnyard, when I saw a startling sight— A wild-eyed, wondering nanny-goat— she really made me quail, For I thought “Suppose this female should be deadlier than the male!" So I tried to shoo her off, but I reckoned without Bill, Who salloped up, and butted in, and helped me down a hill, More mussed up and discouraged than I felt that I could be; For the he-male of that species is more deadly than the she. Some sheep were feeding near me, and 1 caught the old ram's eye, So I went and begged for shelter at a little house near by; And there I saw a woman, and my courage 'gan to fail, For here was Kipling's critter who's more deadly than the male; But as she let me in, I heard a person raging round, Whose intemperate actions filled me with astonishment profound. And I1 fled before the aspect of Tim Sullivan O'Grady, For the gentleman of the species was more deadly than the lady! —The Independent.

CALIFORNIA SENATOR TELLS OF SUFFRAGE

Says Southern Pacific Railroad and All Corrupt Influences Fought It, But it Won, and is Helping the State r U. S. Senator John D. Works, in an address given before the Stanton Club of Washington, D. C., recently, said in part:

There are some women in this country who think that they are too sood to become American citizens. There are some men who believe their sens and their daughters are too good to become American citizens and to go to the polls and vote, but I want to tell you, my good friends, that there is mo man or woman in this country who is too good to become a good American citizen.

They tell us the place of the woman is at home, and that she should stay there in order to rear her sons and bring them up as good citizens. But the society woman gives over the care and education of her sons to a hired nurse or tutor, who not infrequently is a foreigner, while the working woman, who they used to say out in California should not be allowed to vote, rears her own sons and daughters at her knee, and brings them up by her own effort to be good American citizens.

it Dignifies the Mother What is the result of sranting women the right to vote? It elevates and dignifies the mother, because she becomes the teacher of her daughters as well as her sons in the lesson of citizenship. Is it not a beautiful thing when mother and father, brother and sister, can study the affairs of government together, and when the time comes to vote for them all to gotogether to the polls and cast their ballots? Polls Not Respectable

They used to say that the polling places were such that respectable, refined women would not be able to take part in voting. Well, if the polling places are so indecent that respecta-

THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL, FEBRUARY 17, 1912

ble women would not want to there, whose fault is it? Not the women's, certainly. It is only a proof that we need the influence of the good women of this country to make our polling places decent and respectable. Something Is Wrong We are living in an age of unrest. The people are not satisfied. There is something wrong in our political life. We have been trying, out in California, to reform our politics so as to make it worth while to become an American citizen and go to the polls.

Government for the People These great reforms which are now being established all over the country are beginning to place the affairs of government in the hands of the people themselves, and to take them away from the moneyed interests which have governed the politics of this country for twenty years. These reforms will make it possible for women to accomplish something with their votes, as well as the men. Paving the Way

Before the women were granted the franchise in California, we had written into the constitution of that great State of ours the direct primary, the initiative, the referendum and the recall. We had provided for the direct vote of the people. We had prepared the way for the women. Woman suffrage was only one of the reforms. We teok the position that the people were good enough to govern our State, and had a right to do so. Then we went a little bit further, and said that the women of the State were an important part of the people, and that, therefore, they should be given the right along with the men to govern its affairs.

The parties who are striving to prevent reforms here are the same who tried to prevent the women of Califormia from getting the franchise. We meed the women to help us. We have been trying to secure woman suffrage for many years, not only because we believed the women had the right to vote, not only because we believed that it would help the women themselves, but because we believed that it would be good for the State of California to have the women vote. Problems Not Political But Moral

1 am advocating this reform not only for my own State, but for all the States, because I believe it will be good to have women in politics. The great questions which are confrouting this country today are not political questions. They are great moral questions in which every woman should be interested. The question of child labor, the question of women's labor, pure food, and the right of the individual to cast his vote with perfect freedom, uncontaminated by political influences, great as they are —all these are great moral questions, which women are just as capable of dealing with as the men.

You will find, when you come to fight the battle of woman suffrase, that the saloon interests will be always against you. Every evil influence is against woman suffrage. Now I hope the women here are not seeking suffrage as a privilege. 1 hope they are not even demanding it as a right. I hope every good conscientious woman who is granted the franchise will feel that it is a sacred responsibility. “Too Good to Vote"

Some society women will feel that they are too good to vote, and that they would be coentaminated by any connection with the great reforms of which I have been speaking. But the woman who appreciates our government and its institutions will feel it a great and sacred duty to vote. If a society woman does not want to go to the polls, if she feels that she does mot care to assume these great responsibilities, she need not go, but why should she try to prevent every other woman from assuming her share of the responsibility of citizenship?

Pays Respects to Antis I heard of a gathering here in Washington yesverday of women opposed to the further extension of the franchise. These same women did the very same thing in California. They even did a little worse, for they sent emissaries from the East away out there to influence our people against this great reform. But in spite of them we won the vote for women. Women will win the franchise in every State of the Union. The sentiment in faver of

woman suffrage is srowins, and srowins, and growins.1 mis were not true, we could not have established it in California. It was contested there just as hotly as it is everywhere, but no good reasons were advanced against it. I never yet have heard a single reason given for denying the ballot to women which appealed to me as being reasonable just. Rescuing California

Now let me tell you just a little more about some of these reforms. No State of the Union was so controlled by corrupt politicians as California. They controlled both the Democratic and the Republican parties. They mominated whom they pleased. The individual voter had no choice when election day came, except between two evils. The elections were controlled by the Southern Pacific Railroad. They openly bought delegations in the political conventions. At the last State election before the one when Gov. Johnson was elected, the Southern Pacific Railway Company paid Abe Ruef (now serving a term in the penitentiary) $14,000 for the California delegation, and the Governor, a Justice of the Supreme Court, Congressmen and every State officer were nominated and elected by the downright purchase of votes by that corporation. How were we to meet that situation? Respectable Republicans inquired of themselves what they could do under this condition of affairs to redeem the Republican party or raise up a new one. They undertook to reform the Republican party. Some of us had grown up with that party from our youth. We believed that the sreat principles of the Republican party, as they had been, were fundamental, and so we resolved, instead of going out of the party and attempting to establish a new one, to redeem our old party. And so we established the direct pri mary as the first step, followed by the initiative, referendum and recall.

After we had purified politics, after we had placed the power in the hands of the people, we invited the women to step up and take part in the government of the State. Our citizenship has been redeemed. We must depend upon the people, in a free Republic like this, if we want gcod government. The Ballot an instrument

Now what are the women going to o after they get the vote? I hope hey are not working for this reform ione, but that they regard the ballot simply as an instrument with which o accomplish other great reforms.

The ballot has been denied women ul along, but men are now beginning to wake up to the fact that it is unust to withhold it. When that princiole is established, we will be able to set politics out of the corrupt influonces which dominate them in many States. To my mind, the men of the country need the women to help them.

CONCERNING WOMEN

Emma V. Sanders, a brilliant young L.L. D. of the University of Amsterlam, Holland, will be the guest of the Boston E. S. A. for Good Government next Tuesday, when she will speak on Ellen Key and the Woman's Movement." Dr. Sanders is a personal trriend of the Swedish writer, and is trusted by her to interpret her writings. The meeting will be held in the New England Women's Club Rooms, at 3 P. M., and will be free.

Carrie V. A. Lucas of Clarion, Iowa, Recorder of Wright County, writes: “I am very much interested in the cause, and never miss an opportunity of boosting' it. We are going to have suffrage in Iowa in two years at the most. The bequest of our beloved Mrs. Coggeshall takes the money problem from our minds.' On Mrs. Lucas's letter-head are the words, “Irene Tuttle, Deputy." They are evidently not afraid of women in office in lowa.

Mrs. J. H. Slocum of San Bernardino, Cal., in sending in a subscription for The Woman's Journal, says: “Having won the fight here, we turn to old Kansas as the next battlefield. little dreamed when I came te California that I should become a fullfledged citizen before the women of my own beloved Kansas had acquired the ballot.' One of the most reassuring signs of the times is the disposition of the women voters in the newly-enfranchised States not to stop

with the victory in their own State, but to do their utmost to bring victory to the women of other States. Women who have taken the suffrage principles to heart are doing two sisnificant services for the cause. They not only mean to prove their fitness for the ballot by fulfilling well their own civic duties, but are determined not to rest with victory until it is complete for the whole country.

Miss Grace Sherwood of Ashtabula. the only woman member of a Chamber of Commerce in Ohio, is an officer in the Woman Suffrage Party of her city. BY WAY OF SUGGESTION

BY WAY OF SUGGESTION

What to Do and What Others Are Doing in Different States for The Journal and the Cause

The Woman Suffrage Party of Minnmesota has just sent in the names of 112 new subscribers to The Woman's Journal. They are sent in by Eliza P. Evans, who sends in for herself eight other subscribers, making in all 120 subscriptions which came in one letter. Interesting and valuable letters of this kind are becoming more and more frequent. The work srows more encouraging every day!

As The Journal becomes better known the correspondence srows heavier, and more and more important as a necessary part of the day's work in The Journal office. For instance, here is the number of letters to different States in the Unicn that went out on one typical day recently: California 3, Connecticut 2, Illinois s, Towa 1, Kansas 1, Kentucky 1, Maryland 1, Massachusetts 14, Minnesota 4, Missouri 2, Nebraska 1, New Hampshire 2, New Jersey 1, New York 12, Ohio 2, Oklahoma 1, Oregon 1, Pennsylvania 5, Rhode Island 1, Tennessee 1, Vermont 1, Wisconsin 2.

A typical answer to these letters is the following

“My Dear Miss Ryan: “I am replying to your letter to my daughter Grace, who wrote you about Miss Pankhurst's lecture here. We will have a series of at homes' in the homes of our members once a fortnight, charging a small admission fee, having a short talk by someone, followed by refreshments. Our first meeting was held last Tuesday and was a great success.

“We sold some copies of The Journal which you sent and took subscriptions from seven ladies. If you are willing to send some sample copies for a time until we get the pecple more interested in the whole question of suffrage we should like it. Otherwise we will buy some and I will notify you in time for them to arrive. Is there an extra charge for those sent to Canada for a shorter period than one year? Kindly reply. I enclose the blanks I have filled out. The other three addresses are given below.

“I find The Journal entirely satis. factory, almost every item of great in terest. I have for a year been supplying six newspapers with cuttings three regularly once a week and the others very often. The reporters are eager nmow for every bit of news we can furnish them about our doinss, and since Miss Pankhurst's lecture the people's interest has greatly increased. If you can susggest any means we can use to further our work we shall be greatly obliged. “Cordially vyours."

A list of 25 subscribers to The Woman's Journal has just been received. They are for trial subscriptions and are sent in by one Connecticut woman. The number of friends of suffrage who are doing sood work like this in boosting The Journal is encouraging. It would not take long to make The Woman's Journal one of the most powerful papers in the country if a good number of women in each State were working as hard for The Journal as a few in tered States are now doing.

If you can not send 25 new subseriptions to The Journal out of your own pocket, send for our cash offer for suffragists. By means of it you can raise money to send as many or as few as you like. More than a score of ardent suffragists are using this cash offer and by means of it are doing good propaganda work at the

same time that they strengthen and support the National Organ. The cash offer will be sent to any suffragist on application to The Journal office.

The suffragists who are today on the “firing line" for the Cause may not realize the large proportion of aged women who are now in the suffrage ranks. The number of discontinuances to The Woman's Journal on account of death of aged suffragists is considerable, and the number of discontinuances because of failing eyesight and old age is a matter to be reckoned with. The following sentence from a suffragist shows how necessary it is to recruit our ranks with young women: “While I like The Journal I am obliged to discontinue my subscription with other valuable papers on account of failing eyesight." Wanted: Two new subscribers for every discontinuance.

The number of dollars that come in attached to a Journal subscription blank indicates that it is very much worth while for suffragists to put Journal subscription blanks into the hands of their friends. BEvery single one helps, and one new subscriber from every present subscriber would materially alter the financial prospects of The Woman's Journal for the coming year. A word to a suffragist is surely sufficient. Thousands of suffragists are only waiting to know the subscription price and the address of The Journal.

Representatives from Delaware and Missouri were the first ones to adopt the suggestion to send Woman's Jourmal advertising slips in their letters. They are not the only ones, however, and it is hoped that hundreds of women frem other States will order them. When we ask for $1 from a suffragist to pay for her subscription to The Journal, and she sends $2, one for her own subscription and one for a friend or relative, we bless her instinctively.

IMPORTANT TO READERS

As The Woman's Journal becomes better known, the work in the business departments grows heavier, and in order to give the best possible service the co-operation of our subscribers is earnestly solicited. We therefore request careful attention to the following notices:

n di la di an pl ve ce be th Jo w ha ga

Complaints Any mistakes in address on wrapper, in bills sent, in crders filled, in delay in receiving papers, etc., should be reported promptly to The Woman's journal office. This will be considered a kindness to the management. Before reporting, however, kindly read the following paragraphs Correspondence

All business correspondence should be addressed to The Woman's Journal, 585 Boylston street, Boston, Massachusetts. The business departments of The Journal cannot be responsible for letters addressed to Miss Blackwell personally.

Miss Blackwell asks that articles, items and communications meant for publication in the paper shall be sent to her at her home address, 3 Monadnmock Street, Dorchester, Mass. When addressed to her at the office, they are liable to be delayed in reaching her. People should not put in the same letter things for the editor and for the business department; but if they do, Miss Blackwell advises them to address the letter simply to The Woman's Journal, so that the business part at least may be attended to promptly. Remittances

All money meant for The Journal should be made payable to The Woman's Journal and sent by check or pestal money order or express money order. Money sent in currency or stamps is sent at the sender's risk. Receipts

Receipt of money for single subscriptions is not acknowledged. Subscriptions are registered within three days after receipt of remittance by us. The wrapper on a subscriber's Journal shows the date of expiration. Watch the wrapper on your paper, but do not expect change to show on wrapper under two weeks from the date on which remittance is received by us. THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL.

C bus wa Dr. Ne

Ours is a woman suffrage State, yet we do not find women exercising leap year privileges any more than they did before they were enfranchised.— Tacoma (Wash.) Ledger.

--- page 3 ---
VOTES FOR WOMEN BALL Two Thousand Young People Themselves and Champion Equal Suffrage

VOTES FOR WOMEN BALL Two Thousand Young People Themselves and Champion Equal Suffrage

Murray Hill Lyceum in New York was the scene of a brilliant affair on the evening of Feb. 8, when the Women's Political Union gave a ball in which nearly 2,000 persons participated. The hall was appropriately decorated with the Union's colors, banners, mottoes, and in tri-colored electric lights the magnetic words “Votes for Women" were displayed over the stage. Before the dancing began there was a short program, consisting of old English folk songs by the Misses Fuller, arrayed in quaint costume; Russian dancing by the Misses Lewishon in costume; a duet sung by Miss Kitty Cheatem and Mr. Rector, the verses of which were parodied from “Reuben, Reuben, I've Been Thinking," and an eloquent speech by Miss Elizabeth Ellsworth Cook, who urged the audience to march in the woman suffrage parade to be held on Saturday afternoon, May 7, in New York City. During the evening the workers of the W. P. U. canvassed audience with parade pledges and hundreds of pledge slips were signed.

A grand march directed by Miss Josephine Beiderhase, assistant director of athletics for girls in the public schools, was the feature of the evening. This was led by Mrs. Harriot Stanton Blatch and Miss Elizabeth E. Cook, president and vice president of the W. P. U. A prize was awarded to the handsomest couple by the judges, Miss Elizabeth Burcheval, Miss Margaret Calhoun and Mrs. Stanton Lawrence. Youth predominated in the audience, and the spirit of the affair was all youns.

KANSAS NOTES

An Active Campaign Being Made by the Women—Hopes Bright for the Amendment—College Girls for Suffrage

Mrs. W. A. Johnston, State Presi dent, and Miss Helen N. Eacker State Secretary, are in charge of the Equal Suffrage Headquarters at 617 Mills Building, Topeka.

The organization of the State is now more than half done. The first district has added four counties in the last month, and the eighth five. Every district shows activity. The second and eighth are now virtually complete and have held their district con ventions. Practically all the work, excepting in the seventh district, has been done by local women, chiefly by the district presidents. Mrs. W. A. Johnston, State president, and Mrs. W. R. Stubbs, first vice-president, have been present at many of the organization meetings.

The county officers are instructed to carry out the detail work in the counties. No Kansas county is considered fully organized until every precinct woman has been appointed and provided with numerous assistants. The canvass of the State has been undertaken by the department of membership extension. The department of education is endeavoring by means of prize essay contests to carry the work, side by side with the canvass, into every school district and into every Kansas home. The State Board Meeting

The State Board of the Kansas E. S. A. met in Topeka January 30-31, immediately after Kansas Day. Bvery member except two was present. Two came from the extreme western boundary of the State. The members of the Board fully expect the amendment to carry, but not without work, and hard work. The sentiment in favor of enfranchising women has grown noticeably since the last campaign, in 1893. Men are open to conviction. The work of the suffragists has told. The greatest problem that confronts the Board is to secure funds for expenses. They are sending out pledge blanks, hoping that all friends to the cause will make some donation, be it ever so little.

Dr. Helen Brewster Owens Will Help One of the most important pieces of business done by the executive board was the securing the assistance of Dr. Helen Brewster Owens, of Itbaca, New York. Dr. Owens is a native Kansan, and

THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL. FEBRUARY 17, 1912 o the tt U w e baop pi, wome o e She came to Kansas in the late fal, their speakers were allowed ten-min- the strons, sensible, p out of love for the suffrage cause and ute intervals for addresses. one of them, which is a a desire to secure its victory for her “In accounting for suffrase activity trations, ousht to be s native State. While here last fall she in the cause of pure food, Mrs. Blank- the “suffrage slides.” helped to organize the most difficult enburg said that in a city no one in stamps to The Twe part of Kansas. Those who knew of lives for himself. Magazine, Boston, Mass her work spoke of it in the hightest Politics Women's Business uary issue. terms, and the Board were unanimouswe are all, she said, 'dependent Miss Rhoda G. Palme in their delight in securing her help upon the community for our food, for ed the Seneca Falls again. Dr. Owens will come at once, our water, even for our air. We can- 1848, and is now well to help complete the organization of not get air that is not adulterated by nineties, sends us the the State. smoke and germs; we cannot get ling which appears in

Suffrage the Keynote at Kansas Day Club

Suffrage the Keynote at Kansas Day Club The Woman's Kansas Day Club is made up of women of the State, and is non-partisan. There were present in Topeka probably 400 Kansas women representing every congressional district and county. The keynote of the speeches was “Enfranchise Kansas Women." Among the prominent women who spoke were Mrs. Eustace Brown of Olathe, Mrs. W. D. Atkinson, president of the Federated Clubs, of Parsons, Mrs. W. I. Lewis of Colby, and Mrs. Cora G. Lewis of Kinsley.

Women Do Want the Ballot At Washburn College, Topeka, when a straw vote was taken recently on the pending Suffrage Amendment, all the young women voted. Fiftymine voted “no," and 101 voted “yes.' No suffrage agitation had been carried on in the college community previous to the vote. The young men gave a majority against the amendment. The young women are now organizing a College Suffrage Amendment League.

If we can carry out our plans in the press, educational, and membership extension work, our cause is won. It is down in the voting precinct that the real work must be done. The personal touch is what counts. Helen N. Eacker.

NEW HAMPSHIRE HAS COLLEGE LEAGUE

The College Equal Suffrage League of New Hampshire was lately organized in Concord, with the following officers:

President, Mrs. Benjamin Orr, Concord; Vice-President, Mrs. L. C. Curtis, Manchester; Secretary, Mrs. R. A. Boutwell, and Treasurer, Miss Frances Abbott, both of Concord. Miss Martha S. Kimball is the director for Portsmouth, and Directors from Nashua, Manchester, Keene and Littleton will be chosen later. The League is auxiliary to the National Equal Suffrage League. It has adopted a constitution making eligible to membership not only college graduates but normal school graduates and women who have studied in college for one year.

The League is planning to give the play, “How the Vote Was Won," in several cities.

DR. COIT COMING

Dr. Stanton Coit is to be in and about Boston between March 19 and March 28 and is ready to sive addresses on woman suffrage. He is a very able lecturer. His fee is $50. PURE FOOD AND SUFFRAGE

(Concluded from Page 49)

can't 1? The answer, because she didn't use the particular relish, was nmo reflection on the cause.

Music by Suffrage Band “Even the music was provided by a suffrage band, at least that is what Madam Raboul called her orchestra. “The suffrage beoth was the main attraction at the show. Presided over by a group of pretty girls and dignified matrons, it was a Mecca for all in search of information about the true inwardness of the movement. Miss Beatrice Brown was busy selling washrags with the names of the Suffrage States printed on them and the cld legend, Taxation without representation is tyranny. Mrs. Harry Lowenbersg, chairman of the committee, gave out leaflets, green, red and yellow, telling the why and wherefore of the suffrage movement, and others distributed announcements of a suffrage benefit.

“The voices of the advocate of the ballot blended with the demonstrator's rigmarcles about the best silver polish and the most successful coffee pot; but the suffragists got the most attention, for they had the entire floor

when the band stopped playims, and their speakers were allowed ten-minute intervals for addresses. “In accounting for suffrage activity in the cause of pure food, Mrs. Blankenburg said that in a city no one lives for himself.

Politics Women's Business ““We are all, she said, 'dependent upon the community for our food, for our water, even for our air. We cannot get air that is not adulterated by smoke and germs; we cannot set water that is not tampered with by politics; we cannct get food that is not, in some way, affected by politics. If this is true, then politics, the politics that come into the home by way of the water pipes, by way of the food supply and through the school and other agencies that affect women and children, is the business of the mother and the homemaker. We women simply ask, in asking for the ballot, that we be given the right to say what kind of politics shall enter our homes. “Mrs. Edwin C. Grice said that the removal of the industries from the home has made it essential to the health and welfare of the community that woman's interest should follow them into public life and keep an eye on the source of supply."

NOTES AND NEWS

A big registration of women is reported from Sacramento, Cal. Miss Anne Martin edits a department in the Reno Gazette for the Nevada Equal Franchise Society. Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Gilman has in The Forerunner for February an article on "Woman and Democracy," which ought to be reprinted as a suffrage leaflet. The assurances of La Follette's opponents that he is hopelessly disabled are as emphatic as the assertions of the anti-suffragists that the suffrage movement is dead.

The Virginia House of Delegates has voted against weman suffrage, 85 to 12. The Virginia suffragists are cheerful, and say they will keep on working for the ballot till they set it. Rev. R. B. Hassell, the newly-chosen Mayor of Everett, Wash., who is said to have been elected largely by the women's vote, is from Iowa, and both he and his wife are graduates of Grinnell College.

The Suffrage Club of Wellsboro, Pa., has been given the use of the Judges' Chambers for its meetings. It lately had a lecture from Mrs. Ida Porter-Boyer on “A Modern Weapon," which won many friends for equal suffrage. Two women in Indiana have been nominated for State offices on the Socialist ticket, Miss Florence Wattles of Elwcod for State Superintendent of Public Instruction and Mrs. Carl Ott of Indianapolis for State Statistician.

The aeroplane could be put to excellent use by our Solons. Such a method of transportation would land them safely at the windows of the Capitol and not force them to run the gauntlet of the besieging suffragists.— Richmond (Va.) Times-Dispatch. Mrs. Catherine Waugh McCulloch lately contributed to the Chicago Legal News a very valuable article on “Guardianship of Children," giving an account of the guardianship laws of the different States. Send 10 cents in stamps to the Legal News for its issuie of Jan. 13.

By a regrettable oversight, for which The Woman's Journal was not responsible, the Maryland Woman Suffrage Association and the Baltimore City Club were omitted from the list sent us last week of Maryland organizations endorsing and working for the State-wide suffrage bill.

Prof. Charles Zueblin is now the editor of the Twentieth Century Masazine, and it has something in favor of equal suffrage in every issue, with much other good matter as well. The January issue contained “The Awakening of Iceland," by Prof. Jerome Hall Raymond, the first of a series on “The Obscure Democracies of Europe." Prof. Raymond says, “There seems to be no opposition in Iceland to women voting and taking part in public affairs. He tells how the women of Reykjavik have-secured the introduction of gas as fuel, to the great increase of domestic comfort, as the island had long sulered from a chronic fuel famine. Tuere are three

women on the municipal council, and the strons, sensible, pleasant face of one of them, which is amons the illustrations, ousnt to be seized upon for the “suffrage slides." Send 25 cents in stamps to The Twentieth Century Magazine, Boston, Mass., for the January issue.

Miss Rhoda G. Palmer, who attended the Seneca Falls Convention in 1848, and is now well along in the mineties, sends us the poem on Kipling which appears in The Woman's Journal this week. She says she considers it the best thing she has yet seen on that subject.

The Political Equality Club of Corydon, Ia., started the new year with great interest and an enrolment of 86 members. The club calendar covers a year, and provides a program every three weeks. The first two subjects were Civic Improvement and Economics. The club has joined the Iowa State Federation. The Men's League, organized about a year aso, has 74 members.

The week of Susan B. Anthony's birthday was signalized in Rochester, N. Y., by sreat activity on the part of the anti-suffragists, who held a series of meetings and took part in several debates. It was an odd way for Rochester to celebrate the birthday of its most distinguished citizen; but if Miss Anthony knew it, she probably smiled. Anti speeches generally make more converts to votes for women than the most eloquent suffrage addresses.

Mr. Roosevelt quotes with much approval from Dr. Saleeby's “Woman and Womanhood": “Those who suppose that the granting of the vote is going to effect radical and fundamental changes in the facts of biology, the development of instinct and its significance in human action are fools of the very blindest kind."' They certainly are, and nobody does suppose this except those who argue against giving votes to women. —Mrs. Ida H. Harper, in N. Y. Sun.

The Equal Franchise Society of New York sgave the first of a series of suffrage receptions to the various settlements of the city last Saturday evening at the new library and Headquarters, No. 8 East 37th street. The workers and clubs of Christadora House were the guests. Mrs. Pearce Bailey presided and Mrs. Frederick Nathan spoke. The object is to bring the library to the attention of women wage earners. On Wednesday aftermoons a series of receptions for the various suffrage societies will be held. On Feb. 14 the Woman Suffrage Party was the guest of honor.

WOMEN'S DISILLUSIONED EYES “A Dream of Fair Women" and a National Policy, Simple But Effective, In Which Each Woman Contributes at Least One Hundred Dollars Per Week No Matter How Poor in Worldly Goods Last Saturday night I went to bed |o'clock that two special policemen tired and unhappy. All the afternoon were kept on guard while it was beplans had been discussed for organiz- ing counted. ing a large newsy army, and while The women's eyes. are hard to dethere was much of promise, there was scribe. They were disillusioned eyes also much of uncertainty. I went to with a far-away, sad look. It was as sleep and dreamed a dream of a vast if the women nad said to themselves, army. “We are never going to get this yote

I thought there was in every city and town an army of Woman's Journal newsies—one weman for every street corner in the nation. In each city and town there was a sprinkling of girls, but the army was chiefly composed of women of middle age and olo women. They were the mothers and matrons of the nation, and many indeed were the gray heads! There were two notable things about the army: its splendid but simple organization, and the look in the eyes of the women.

Every Saturday afterncon they were in their places at 12.30, wearing yellow bags marked “Votes for Women Paper, The Woman's Journal, 5c." They stayed at their posts till four, when the oldest woman of the army blew seven blasts from a yellow bugle and all the army came trooping along wearing their bags and comparing their afternoon sales. They marched by twos to a central office, in each town, hung up their bass, returned the unsold papers and turned in their money. Each woman's work was credited as worth one hundred dollars. Even if she had not sold a paper, her afternoon's work had been worth one hundred dollars to the Cause and The Journal, merely for advertising. But everybody sold many papers and so much silver was in hand by five

EDUCATOR CRACKERS

For six years they have as “The Cracker of Character." They are most economical, because they're a wholesome, nuitious, whole wheat food— not simply a filling. They may cost a litle more per box, but a great deal less per month. Get them at your grocer's. B: sure to look for the name EDUCATOR. If he cannot supply you, order from us. Anyway, send 10 cents in stamps for large trial box, and please mention your grocer's name.

JOHNSON EDUCATOR FOOD Ct 24 Batterymarch St., Boston

JOHNSON EDUCATOR FOOD CO. 24 Batterymarch St., Boston

Judge John P. Kavanaugh of Portland, vice-president of the Oregon Men's League for Woman Suffrage, lately made a trip through Washingten and California, and talked with many people about the effects of woman suffrage. He also observed the women and the homes, and he anmounces his conviction that the talk about the ballot injuring womanliness and destroying the home is nonsense.

Mayor Blankenburg won the plaudits of more than a thousand youns women belonging to the Strawbridge &Clothier Relief Association last night by declaring that he believes in weman suffrage and would give them the right to vote tomorrow had he the power to do so. The Mayor was the guest of honer at the association's anmual meetingsg. —Philadelphia Bulletin.

o'clock that two special policemen were kept on guard while it was being counted.

The women's eyes. are hard to describe. They were disillusioned eyes with a far-away, sad look. It was as if the women had said to themselves, “We are never going to get this vote and be free unless we organize to educate the public in our behalf. We will make them notice us, read about us and know that we are in dead earnest." To the men they had said: "No, it is not dignified. But you do mot want us to strike or be mimant you heed not our pleadings, our prayers, our petitions., You have driven us to desperation! So now we will stand on the street corners and sell papers. We have asreed upon this as our national policy. You may revile us for this, but we will not desist. We shall come out to shame you till you give us the vote."

The eyes of the women told this so powerfully that, as the army marched along, the onlooker was conscious of nothing but a mighty army of women's disillusioned eyes looking faraway and sad, but with an earnestness and beauty beyond words to describe. This was merely a dream, but the leaven is already working in Maryland, Illinois, Ohio, Rhode Island, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, New Hampshire, Connecticut, and perhaps the dream is not too gocd to come true! What if each State should take to selling The Journal weekly as a bit of national policy simple but effective?

51

Agnes E. Ryan.

Agnes E. Ryan.

--- page 4 ---
52

HE WOMAN'S JOURNAL

LUCY STONE and HENRY B. BLACKWELL A Weekly Newspaper Devoted to Winning Equal Rights and especially to Winning Equal Suffrage for Women. MISS ALICE STONE BLACKWELL 3 MONADNOCK STREET, DORCHESTER, MASS Contributing Editors MISS MARY JOHNSTON MRS. IDA H. HARPER MISS ELLIS MEREDITH REV. CAROLINE BARTLETT CRANE MRS. MABEL CRAFT DEERING Office - 585 Boylston Street, Boston, Mass. Telephone, Back Bay 4717 NEW YORK office National Suffrage Headquarters, 505 Fifth Ave. NATIONAL AMERICAN WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION

505 Fifth Avenue, New York City. ANNA HOWARD SHAW, President, Moylan, Pa. JANE ADDAMS, ist Vice-President, Hull House, Chicago, Ills. SOPHONISBA P. BRECKINRIDGE, 2nd Vice President, Greon Hall, University of Chicago, Ills. MARY WARE DENNETT, Corresponding Secretary. 505 Fifth Avenue, New York. SUSAN W. FITZGERALD, Recording Secretary, 585 Boyliston Street, Boston, Mass. JESSIE ASHLEY, Treasurer, 506 Firth Avenue, New York. HARRIET BURTON LAIDLAW, 2nd Auditor, 6 East 66th Street, New York. ALICE STONE BLACKWELL, Editor of “The Woman's Journal," Monadnock Street, Dorchester, Mass. SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1912

SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1912

————— Entered at the post-office, Boston, Massachusets, as second class maner SUBSCRIPTION . . $1.00 Six Months . .50 Four Months on Trial . . . . Single Copies . . 05 Canadian or Foreign: One Year . . 1.50 On sale at Brentano's, New York City; also on news-stands in York, Boston and elsewhere. RECEIPT of payment must not be expected to show on address label d two weeks from date received. Instructions for RENEWAL DISCONTINUANCE or CHANGE OF ADDRESS should be sent two eoe the date they are to go into effect. Both old and new s lways De given. r Dusiness letters mould be addressed to the office of The Woman's Journal585 Boyiston Street, Boston, Mass. Registered letters or express company's money orders may be sent at our risk. Money sent et o ot e istered will be at the risk of the sender. Checks and drafts and post-office orders should be made payable to The Woman's Journal. Advertising rates will be sent upon application to advertising manager. New York Advertising Representative, M. D. Bryant & Co., Inc., 200 Fifth Avenue, New York City. Business Manager, AGNES E. RYAN.

LINCOLN DAY

This week Lincoln's birthday has been celebrated from sea to sea. Among the hundreds of celebrations, probably not one in twenty took note of the fact that Lincoln was the first prominent public man in America to come out in favor of votes for women. He was the precursor of all the Men's Leagues; and that particular leaf in his crown of laurel will srow brighter and brighter as the years go by. A. S. B.

THE BRITISH CABINET CRISIS

A very curious situation has arisen in England, srowing out of the strength of the suffrage agitation and the obstinacy of the Prime Minister. It recalls the old conundrum as to what would happen if an immovable obstacle should be struck by an irresistible force. Just now it looks as though the unwillingness of Mr. Asquith to srant justice to women might bring about the downfall of the Liberal party. English papers abound in prophecies to this effect. It is interesting to see that in England the woman suffrage movement has grown so formidable as to be thought capable of overthrowing the sreat party now in power. A. S. B.

A BAD RECORD

The Liberal party has put through several reforms of high importance during the past few years, and its general program is one with which all Americans ought to sympathize. The weak point has been the Cabinet's attitude on votes for women. On this question its record has been abominably bad. Up to about a year ago it flatly refused to grant time for the House of Commons to put through a suffrage bill. Asain and again the bill passed its second reading by large majorities, but the time for third reading was denied. The women who protested were sent to prison by hundreds, and treated with such brutality that the public indignation began to cost the Liberal party many votes. Herbert Gladstone, as Home Secretary, was held chiefly responsible for carrying out the Cabinet's policy toward the suffragette prisoners. To save the Cabinet's face he was finally appointed Governor of South Africa and shipped off to make room for another Home Secretary, who introduced methods less savage.

The two members of the Cabinet mainly responsible for blocking woman suffrage have been Asquith and Lloyd-George. The Prime Minister is a bigoted opponent of votes for women in any form. Lioyd-George is a zealous party man, who believes in woman suffrage, but would rather delay it indefinitely than have it come in a form which would not bring a distinct party advantage to the Liberals.

At last, about a year aso, Mr. Asquith promised that this year the Cabinet would srant time for the “Conciliation Bill" to go through all its stages in the House of Commons. This bill had been drawn up by a “Conciliation Committee" of 60 members of Parliament, belonging to all parties, as a measere that would not sive advantage to any party, but would be fair to all. It proposed to enfranchise the women “householders" who had had the municipal vote for 40 years. A careful mvestigation by the Independent Labor Party had shown that 82 per cent. of them were women of the working class. The great majority of the suffrasists of all parties in Parliament were willing to accept this measure as a fair compromise. It passed its second reading

AL by a huse majority, in spite of the most earnest efforts of Lloyd- The George to persuade the Liberals to vote against it, on the ground that the —————that it was a Tory measure in disgulse. Evidently the House did and send nmot think so, for the Tories save a majority vote agaimst the Cabinet in bill, while the Liberals save a large majority in its favor, and ture entit the Labor members voted for it almost unanimously (32 to 2). Liloyd-Geo. Out of the 670 members of the House only 84 voted against ment" and the bill, though the “Antis" had tried to muster every possible their fists supporter. Still the Cabinet refused to srant time for the with fissu measure to go to third reading and final vote. Thesw A. S. B. about Pri

THREE POSSIBLE AMENDMENTS

When Asquith at last promised to srant time for the Concillation Bill to go to third readins, militancy stopped. But a few months ago he astounded everybody by announcing that he was goins to introduce a bill providing for manhood suffrage and wiping out plural voting and an vestiges of a property qualification. From our American point of view, they ought to be wiped out, of course; but in England the proposal for manhood suffrage is looked upon as ultra-radical. All the newspapers pointed out that there had as yet been hardly any public demand for it, and mo “mandate" from the voters. All the Suffrage Associations, the non-militant as well as the militant, with one voice declared it to be an outrage to leave the women out when introducing a general bill to remodel the franchise. They were especially disgusted because the violent party passions aroused over the manhood suffrage proposal would render impossible the passage of the non-party measure which had been arranged with so much labor and care. As Lloyd-Georse boasted, it had “torpedoed" the Conciliation Bill.

Headed by Mrs. Millicent Garrett Fawcett, a deputation representing all the suffrage societies waited upon Mr. Asquith, and he received them—thoush only two or three years ago he obstinately refused to meet any deputation of suffragists, and let many of the same women stand at the sate for upwards of 10,000 hours rather than allow them to interview him for ten minutes.

The women had insisted that Lloyd-George should be present on this occasion as well as Mr. Asquith, many of them regarding Lloyd-George as the real power behind the throne; and he came, “looking as cross as a bear," according to a member of the deputation. Mrs. Fawcett and the other ladies urged that women should be included in the government bill. This was refused; but Mr. Asquith promised that the House should be left free to add a woman suffrage amendment, and that, if such an amendment were added, the Cabinet would accept it as an integral part of the bill, and would fight for it against the House of Lords if necessary. Lloyd-George promised to do his best to carry an amendment for woman suffrage “on broad democratic lines," and also to make an educational campaign for it before the country.

All the Suffrage Associations except the W. S. P. U. (Mrs. Pankhurst's society) decided to concentrate their efforts on getting an amendment added to the bill. Lord Lytton, the chairman of the Conciliation Committee, and Mr. Brailstord, its secretary, expressed good hopes that it could be done. The intention was to introduce first an amendment to sive full suffrage to all women—this everyone knew could not pass—and next the “Norwegian amendment," i. e., one siving votes to the wives of all men who were qualified voters, as in Norway—and finally, if this failed, one siving votes to women householders, along the lines of the Conciliation Bill. The second amendment was the one understood to be favored by Lloyd-George, as it would give votes to the wives of workingmen.

The W. S. P. U. declared that Lloyd-George could not carry the Norwegian amendment if he tried, and they did not believe he really meant to try. They said he and Mr. Asquith would simply engage in a sham figsht over this amendment, in order to throw dust in the women's eyes, with a private understanding that it was not to pass. They resumed militant tactics, declaring that it would be impossible for the members of the Cabinet to go on publicly contending against each other over the suffrage question, when it was unwritten law that in public the Cabinet ministers must stand together. A. S. B.

THE NEMESIS OF LIBERALISM

We have hoped that the W. S. P. U. might prove to be mistaken as to Lloyd-George's insincerity. True, he had shown much bitterness and unfairness toward those who were pressing for women's early enfranchisement—a measure that he avowedly wanted to put off till after the disestablisnment of the Episcopal Church in Wales. He had repeatedly denounced as “hirelings" the chivalrous youns men—largely college students— who went to heckle him at his meetings, without a penny of pay. When he was making a speech urging the women to wait, and an elderly woman rose and reminded him that they had already waited forty years, he answered, “You look it." But all this rudeness might have been compatible with honesty of general intention. It is now reported, however, from “semi-ofcial sources," that all the pledges to the women are to be thrown overboard.

First it was said that the question might be submitted to a referendum of the electors. But the Liberal party was definitely committed against submitting anything to a referendum, and if they did it in the case of woman suffrage, they feared it might be a precedent. The idea of ordering a referendum was considered by the Cabinet and was rejected. But something had to be done, for the British public was scandalized by what it looked upon as the indecent spectacle of Cabinet ministers taking the stump on opposite sides. The decision reached, according to the “semi-official sources," was that the Cabinet ministers should keep the few engagements they had already made to speak on woman suffrage, but should make no more, and that Lloyd-George should give up the promised educational campaign, and unite with the other ministers in a conspiracy of silence. Instead of bringing in a manhood suffrage bill which could be amended to include women, Mr. Asquith, it is said, will bring in a bill to abolish plural voting—a measure to which no woman suffrage amendment can be added—and the whole subject of votes for women will once more be postponed indefinitely. If these reports prove true, the government will stand, as the Liberal Daily News says, “naked of honor;" and militaney will become active again all through Great Britain.

The Torles are filled with unholy glee at the prospect that the disagreements over this question may turn the scale and send the Liberals out of power. Punch is ridiculing the Cabinet in cartoons, and the Pall Mall Gazette publishes a picture entitled “Falling Out Before Falling In." It represents Lloyd-George with a heavy basket labelled “Welsh Disestablishment" and Asquith with another labelled “Home Rule," shaking their fists at each other while they stand on thin ioce cracked with fissures marked “Female Suffrage."

M Yorl “ othe Bart and Mast beca only mor from

Theswhole situation recalls George Macdonald's weird ballad about Prince Breachan and the whirlpool of Corrievrekan. A Danish prince asks the King of the Western Isles for his daughter's hand. The father bids him first prove himself a sea king by anchoring his ship in the whirlpool for three days and nights. The prince applies to the “wise women" for a charm whereby he may do it. They tell him to prepare three iron anchors forged on Christmas Eve, and three cables:

Take a cable of hemp, and a cable of wool, And a cable of maidens' hair,

that the such not Som in Th cont Mrs. nals, alonsg cne

And hie thee back to the roaring pool, And anchor in safety there." All the maidens are asked to sgive their hair, and amons them comes a golden-haired girl whom Prince Breachan had deceived and deserted. During his first night in the whirlpool the cable of wool breaks, and during the second night, the cable of hemp; but the cable of hair holds out, and the prince blesses the maidens of Denmark. The third night is dark with storm. The ship swings around and around the whirlpool. The prince keeps his anxious eyes fixed on the cable, which is twisted of three strands, one made from the black locks, one from the brown, and one from the golden—and he sees that the golden strand is giving way.

Th occas Drove and need

“The third morn, cool and clear, looked out— Nor man nor ship was there! For the golden strand in the cable stout Was not all of maidens' hair."

As wom New and two

The wronged and sacrificed woman has been the rotten strand in the anchor-rope that has caused many srand schemes and magnificent civilizations to drift to destruction. If the illiberal streak in the Liberal Cabinet leads to the wreck of the Liberal party, history will only be repeatins itself. We are not concerned about votes for women—the women in England are sure to get the franchise, if not from one party, then from the other—but it will be a shame if the Tories reap the honor and advantage of what ousht to be a Liberal measure par excellence. There is talk of Asquith yielding his place as Prime Minister to Lloyd-George, since he cannot yield up his opposition to equal rights for women. That would be a better solution.

Meanwhile arrangements have been made for three monster meetings, the first by the advocates of universal suffrage for men and women; the second by those who believe in getting all they can, to be addressed by Lloyd-Georse, Sir Edward Grey, and representatives of the National Union (the non-militant suffragists) and the Women's Freedom League; and a third by the anti-suffragists, where some anti members of the Cabinet will speak. To this last meeting only anti-suffrasists are to be admitted. The whole situation is curious and excitins, and developments will be awaited with much interest. A. S. B.

IS WOMAN SUFFRAGE IMPORTANT?

Col. Roosevelt says that he believes in woman suffrage, but that he considers it of small importance. If he realized how important all the vicious interests consider it to defeat woman suffrage and how they pour out money for that purpose like water, he might find in this a practical reason for believing that woman suffrage is a matter of some moment. Mrs. Zerelda G. Wallace said it grieved her to see how much more faith bad men had than good men that the majority of women could be counted upon to vote for righteousness. A. S. B.

The by a pened worki womay brutal childr the el to sen the po the in what knmown all six

THE QUESTION OF BAD COMPANY

Col. Roosevelt quotes with approval a remark of Dr. C. W. Saleeby that he finds it needs “constant bracing up of the judsment" to hold to his faith in equal suffrage in the face of the extreme and objectionable theories advocated by some suffragists. He might get it very well braced by observing the attitude of the solid vice and villany of the nation toward woman suffrage. On which side are all the undesirable classes of men that the Colonel excoriates so severely—those who beat their wives and neglect to support their children, the exploiters of women's labor and of child labor, those who profit by the white slave trade, and the mass of its patrons? There is some bad company to be found on both sides; but by far the largest amount of the country's immorality is in the camp of the antisuffragists.

Duri suffrag water diansht Massa the Fu Womer promin its off tion to

Mrs. Howe had a much longer and wider experience of suffragists than the Colonel. She often said that one of the pleasures resulting to her from her conversion to the cause was that it brought her into “such high company." She had expected to find the men and women working for it wild and objectionable; she found most of them the salt of the earth. There were some undesirables even in the early days, and with the enormous spread of the movement in recent years, all sorts of people have of course been swept into it; yet Mrs. Howe could write in her reply to Mrs. Humphry Ward, in the London Times of Oct. 1, 1908: “In the experience of many years, I have always found the advocates of woman suffrage occupyinsg higher moral ground than that held by their opponents."” “We who are gathered here," she said at a suffrage convention, “are nmot contemners of marriage, nor neglectors of home and offspring. We are individually allowed to be men and women of sound intellect, of reputable life." This has always been true of the great bulk of the suffragists. A. S. B.

The en in States, series many Sewall them t thirty propert Associa and the fore th The Wo Judge improve women' time.

“How plished public a very created, may first be against and siv

Is there any man willing to resign his own right to vote, and trust his welfare and his earnings entirely to the votes of others? Suppose any class of men should condescendingly offer to settle for us our capacity or our calling,—to vote for us, to choose our sphere for us,—how ridiculously impertinent we should consider it! Yet few have the good sense to laugh at the consummate impertinence with which every bar-room brawler, every thirdrate scribbler, undertakes to settle the sphere of the Martineaus and the De Stasls!—Wendell Phillips.

--- page 5 ---
— sct ale he icts shing ced

MRS. GEORGE VS. FACTS

Have Suffragists or Antis Promoted Equal Guardianship and Married Women's Property Rights?

Mrs. James Lees Laidlaw of New York writes: “Miss Freeman and I spoke the other night to 600 working girls at St. Bartholomew's Club. iIt was a debate, and Mrs. A. J. George of Brookline, Mass., was my antagonist. The sirls became very much interested. We not only enrolled 50 of them, but this morning I have additional letters trom them asking for literature, etc.

“Mrs. George asserted positively that the weman's property rights bill, the equal guardianship bill and all such measures had been furthered not by the suffragists but by the Antis. Something came out some months ago in The Woman's Journal showing the contrary. I am pledged to furnish Mrs. George with one of these Journals, as she challenged my statement along this line, and also I am to send cne to each of the 50 girls."

ong had o01 ble ses rm. nce of the den

The Woman's Journal has often had occasion to give the facts which disprove this claim of the anti-suffragists, and is glad to give them whenever needed. As Mrs. George is a Massachusetts woman, and made her statement in New York, let us take the property and equal guardianship laws of those two States, as typical.

ten mes libthe

In Massachusetts, Lucy Stone in 1847 began to lecture in behalf of equal guardianship and the right of married women to control their own property. Anti-suffrage women mocked her efforts, and asked with scorn, “Do you think I would sive myself where I would not give my property?" The suffragists continued to work for equal suardianship until 1902, when the bill (introduced at the request of the Massachusetts Woman Suffrage Association by a suffrage member of the Legislature, George H. Fall, finally became law. The prospects for its passage looked so dark, even at the end of the 55 years' agitation, that Mr. Fall, after introducing the bill, came to The Woman's Journa Omce and asked the present editor (who had been in college with him) if it would not be better to withdraw the measure for that year, and await a more propitious time. She urged him to make a fight for it, at any rate. He did so, and it went through by a large majority. Judse Fall will readily confirm this statement if it should be disputed.

men rty, eap ure as his tter

ster for ting rey, tant hird abie to and

but how man like that a G. men be

The passage of the bill was helped by a distressing case that had happened the year before. A good, hardworking and sweet-tempered young woman was married to a drunken and brutal husband. They had six younsg children. He determined to place out the eldest five among strangers and to send the mother and her baby to the poor-house. Distracted by grief at the impending separation and fear of what the children might suffer in unknown hands, the young mother killed all six of them with an axe.

W. udsthe ffraattiman men heir of hite bad gest mti-

During those 55 years, the antisuffragists constantly threw cold water upon the efforts for equal guardianship; and for six years the Massachusetts Association Opposed to the Further Extension of Suffrage to Women, of which Mrs. George is a prominent member, circulated under its offcial imprint a leafiet in opposition to equal guardianship.

of the was exand rth. with orts owe don s, I ing We are offof of 3. mend

The property rights of married women in Massachusetts, as in most other States, were gained piecemeal, by a series of changes extending over many years. The late Samuel E. Sewall had more to do with securing them than any other one man. For thirty years it was he who drew the property rights bills for the Suffrage Association, and helped Lucy Stone and the other women argue them before the legislative committees. m The Woman's Jeurnal of Oct. 27, 1877, Judge Sewall save an cutline of the improvements made in the married women's property laws up to that time. He continued:

“How has this work been accomplished? By the steady srowth of public opinion, prometed and aided in a very sreat degree, if not entirely created, by the labors of suffrasists. may add that when the suffragists first began to move, the prejudice against altering the status of wives, and giving women the public offices

and ors? ttle our der ate irdaus

THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL. FEBRUARY 17, 1912 ———— into which they have simce boen FORM OF BEQUEST troduced, was stronger than that which now resists sranting them the| I hereby sive and bequeath to me ARE YouU $ ballot." National American Woman Suffragse

The centenary of Henry Wilson, former Vice-President of the United States, is calling attention anew to his merits and services. Mr. Wilson was a suffragist, and was the author of an early Massachusetts statute to give a married woman the right to her own earnings. He told a former editor of The Woman's Journal that he was led to introduce it by seeing how often idle and shiftless husbands came and collected the wages of industrious wives employed in his own factory.

During all this time the anti-suffragists kept on saying that women had all the rights they wanted," that the laws were already “more than just to women," etc., etc. When the referendum of men and women lately referred to by Theodore Roosevelt was taken in Massachusetts in 1895, a “Man Suffrage Association" of influential men was organized to fight equal rights for women. It published a list of reasons why men should vote against woman suffrage. One was, “Because women now suffer no injustice in Massachusetts.' At that time no married mother in Massachusetts had any legal rights over her own child so long as she lived with her husband, and the laws of inheritance between husband and wife were still grossly unequal.

New York's Experience

In New York the case is just as clear, and in one respect stronger. The Woman's Rights Convention held in Seneca Falls in 1848 demanded equal guardianship and equal property rights, and the suffragists kept on persistently working for them. There, as in Massachusetts and everywhere else, the anti-suffragists prophesied most dreadful consequences. In 1854 Mrs. Stanton and Miss Anthony asked the New York Legislature to give married women a right to their own earninss, and presented a petition with 5,931 signatures.

Assemblyman Burnett of Onondaga said:

“They do not appear to be satisfied with having unsexed themselves, but they desire to unsex every female in the land, and to set the whole community ablaze with unhallowed fire. .The object of these unsexed women is te overthrow the most sacred of our institutions, to set at deflance the divine law which declares man and wife to be one, and to estabifsh on its ruins what will be in fact and in principle but a species of legalized adultery. Are we, sir, to give the least countenance to claims so preposterous, disgraceful and eriminal?" Through the efforts of Mrs. Stanton and Miss Anthony, a joint guardianship bill was passed in 1860. But two years later it was repealed, and the old statute was restored in all its pristine barbarity, giving the husband not only the sole control of the children during his life, but the right to will them away from their mother after his death.

A Celebrated Case A Chinaman in New York married a respectable Irishwoman. When their first baby was three days old, the husband gave it to his brother, to be taken away to China and brought up there. The mother, through the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, appealed to the courts. The judge promptly decided that the husband was acting within his rights. He was the sole legal owner of the baby; he had the sole right to say what should be done with it. A Wait of 31 Years

This continued to be the law for 31 years longer, during which time the suffragists worked diligently to educate the public mind in favor of a change, and the anti-suffragists steadily threw cold water upon their efforts. In 1893 Mrs. Harriet Townsend, another suffragist, stirred up the Women's Educational and Industrial Union of Buffalo to action. They drew up and mailed to every member of the Legislature a circular which proved so effective that an equalguardianship bill was passed asgain. The most telling part of the circular was a list of actual cases of hardship that had occurred under the old law. Every one of these examples was quoted from The Woman's Journal and credited to it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I hereby sive and bequeath to the National American Woman Suffrage Association, being incorporated under the laws of the District of Columbia, the sum of $.............principal and interest to be applied by such association for the support and promotion of the cause of woman suffrage.

An Object Lesson The vicissitudes of the equal suardianship law in New York are a striking proof of the insecure tenure by which women hold any sains that they may obtain by indirect influence. Hvery good law secured by long and arduous effort is subject to repeal at the caprice of a Legislature whose composition is constantly changins, and whose members have no women among their constituents.

A few small and sporadic improvements in the laws for married women were made before the organized movement for equal rights began, but not before it had been strongly advocated in books and pamphlets. And in the sixty or seventy years since the organized movement began, more has been accomplished than in all the preceding centuries.

Mrs. George Famous for Inaccuracy Mrs. George is known by the sufrragists of her own State to be remarkably reckless and inaccurate in her assertions. In February, 1910, she attended the National Suffrage Convention in Washington, D. C., and spoke against woman suffrage before a Congressional Committee. At the legislative hearing on suffrage in Massachusetts on March 8, 1900, Mrs. George referred to her visit to Washington, and said: “One of the Wyoming Senators told me that in Wyoming woman suffrage had been a negative factor, but in Colorado it had been an unqualified disaster."' In answer to a letter of inquiry, the two United States Senators from Wyoming both denied emphatically that they had ever said anything of the kind. Senator Francis E. Warren wrote: “I never spoke against woman suffrage in any way, at any time, or anywhere, and of course could not have sald. Woman suffrage in Wyoming is a megative factor, but in Colorado an unqualified disaster.” Senator Clarence D. Clark wrote: “I have never said that 'woman suffrage in Wyoming is a negative factor, or that in Colorado it is an ‘unqualified disaster. I have no knowledge that would cause me to say anything but that in Wyoming it is an unqualified success. As to the situation in Colorado; I know little, if anything, about its operation."

Public attention was repeatedly called to this matter, but no explanation, so far as I am aware, was ever offered by Mrs. George. As this lady is now doing a great deal of lecturing against equal suffrage, people should know that her statements of fact are often altogether inexact. A. S. B.

IN THE MAGAZINES

Abbott, Lyman.” Woman's rishts. Outlook. New York. Feb. 10. Reply to Roosevelt's article of last week. Lowe, Caroline A. Women in the Socialist Party. St. Louis Labor. St. Louis. Jan. 27. Mistress and maid. Chambers Journal. London, February. Parson's, Elsie Clews. The supernatural policing of women. Independent. New York. Feb. 8. “Scared into being sgood like children," by Socieny.

Elizabeth J. Sherwood.

JURY SERVICE AND CHIVALR?

Mrs. E. P. Spinning of Puyallup, Wash., writes: “I am glad to say our women take kindly to jury duties. I have a dear young married friend in Spokane, Mrs. Olga V. Ruedy. When called to serve on the jury, she was about to leave for Colorado. But she writes me, Do you suppose I would miss that privilege of learning something and hearing those lawyers talk? No, indeed!" She was made fereman (or foreweman). The first case was a condemnation suit brought by the city to fix damages on certain proper-

ARE YOU SUBSCRIBING T0 A MAGAIINE? If so, order it through our agency. The commission is used for suffrage. We take subscriptions to any and all magazines. Club Rates Furnished. A WAY T0 HELP SUFFRAGE WITHOUT PAYING AN EXTRA CENT ELIZABETH o Bureau National Fifth Avenue

HYGIENIC CORSETS handicap to both social and business life. I is a woman's duty to look her best. An unusual value at $5.50 and $7.50 HYGIENIC CORSET MFG. C0. 2 REPRESENTATIVES WANTED—Exciusive territory if taken now

THE ellow Ribbon Speaker Compiled by Anna H. Shaw, Alice Stone Blackwell and Lucy E. Anthony. A book of woman suffrage readings and recitations. Price, 50 cents.

Price, 50 cents. Order from The Woman's Journal

ties, which required some thought and study. She noticed that in most cases her opinions were treated with due respect, and the men all behaved with courtesy." The male jurors were taken out on a bob-sled to see the properties in dispute, but this rough conveyance—a wagon-bed on runners, with a thin layer of straw—was not thought good enough for Mrs. Ruedy. The bailiff took her in an automobile. Who was it said that suffrage would be the death of chivalry?

“REGISTRATION TEAS"

At Sacramento, Modesto, and other places in California, equal suffrage has led to a new kind of social parties, called “registration teas A public-spirited hostess, desirous to get her neighbors registered, invites them to afternoon tea, and has a deputy clerk on hand to register their names.

PRESIDENTIAL SUFFRAGE

The Simple Legislative Procedure by Which Women May Be Given the Right to Vote for President of the United States The very decided advantages that presidential suffrage offers, both as a means of agitation and as a practical attainment, is quite overicoked in these days of strenuous, and happily sometimes successful, endeavors for full suffrage.

The experiences of suffrage campaigns have proved too often that they were premature, and the sreat outlay of time and treasure which they nave involved has resulted in defeats that have greatly impeded further progress of the movement. Moreover, many States are at present making great exertion to obtain the submission of an amendment for full enfranchisement, when it is manifest that they have not “a ghost of a chance" to obtain a favorable vote, or resources for a successful campaign were the measure submitted to the people.

Is it not good political tactics to proceed along the lines of least resistance and try for the possible rather than the impossible in our appeals to Legislatures? May it not safely be presumed that, in some instances where attempts to obtain full suffrage have failed, the same amount of effort might have procured presidential suffrage if directed to that end? That other forms of fractional suffrage have sometimes failed in practical operation to advance the cause of full suffrage is due to the fact that political parties are not sufficiently interested in women's vote on school and municipal affairs fo use the legitimate and necessary methods to bring out their vote. But the large interests involved in federal legislation call out the largest vote of men, and cal parties would spare no pains to

53

HALLS T0 LET 200 Huntington Avenue Opposite Norway Street Three beautiful halls with rooms connected. Especially suited for lodge rooms, concerts, dances, school purposes, meetings, recitals, ete. Three studios. Also a banquet hall, Apply on premises or to M. H. GULESIAN St. James Theatre, 239 Huntington Avenue, Boston

ADVERTISING When writing to the advertisers be sure to say, “I saw it in the Woman's Journal."

bring out the vote of women on the same issues. The fact that women in six States will help to choose 29 presidential electors has caused the politicians to “sit up and take notice" of women's enfranchisement as no amount of power for local legislation, valuable as that is, has done. By Section 1 of Art. Il of the U. S. Constitution, power to determine presidential electors is given to State Legislatures. By a majority of one, at a single session, this great and sisnificant measure of political power may be obtained. Is it not worth

Sigrid A. Johnson —: GOWNS :1— Evening Gowns a specialty Style, fit and satisfaction guaranteed 673 Boylston St., Gill Bldg. Tel. B. B. 1471-M

scoftish Terriers Offered as companions. Not given to fighting or roaming. Best for children's pets.

NEWCASTLE KENNELS Brookline, Mass. The Poetry and Philosophy of Tennyson Six Lectures by EDWARD HOWARD GRIGGS

To be given on successive WEDNESDAY EVENINGS February 21, 28, March 6, 13, 20. 27, 1912 at eight-fifteen o'clock in JORDAN HALL, BOSTON Price of tickets for the course $2, $3, $4, according to location Single admissions, 50 cents, 75 cents, $1.00 All seats reserved

--- page 6 ---
t

54

while to try for it, where there is no possibility of obtaining more? suffrage we recognize. But that there are many more not ripe for it is apparent by the large adverse votes given after costly and exhaustive campaigns to obtain favorable legislaticn. 1 should be glad to correspond with any who may wish further information on the subject.

National Chairman of Presidentia Suffrage. 209 Butler avenue, Providence, R. I

CONNECTICUT NOTES

The past week has been marked by a series of successes for the Connecticut W. S. A., which is now in the midst of its great winter trolley campaign. One of the most important meetings so far, and the most gratifying, was the one held on Feb. 8 in Waterbury. There had been a good deal of doubt as to how Waterbury would receive the suffragists and their arguments, but this doubt was immediately dispelled when the hall was completely filled and nearly a hundred people had to content themselves with standing room before the time of the meeting. The audience was one of the most representative and responsive that has ever been gathered together in the city. The attention paid was of the best, and the meeting from start to finish was a remarkable one. Miss Fola La Follette, Miss Emily Pierson and Mrs. Rheta Childe Dorr were the speakers, and for over two hours they held the audience spellbound. Over two hundred names were signed to the suffrage slips, and this in a city where it had been said there were no suffragists. The night before Miss Pierson and Mrs. Dorr addressed a meeting in Naugatuck, and this was another phenomenal success. Naugatuck is a town in which there is but one industry—the rubber industry. The meeting was largely attended by the working people, and so interested and earnest were they that over a hundred signed their names to the ever-growing roll of Connecticut suffragists. On the same evening, Dr. Stanton Coit addressed a small sathing in the Middlebury town hall, but even this small meeting gathered in a harvest of thirty names. Friday evening Max Eastman and Miss La Follette spoke in Ansonia, and on Monday evening Mrs. Dorr and Miss Pierson addressed a mass meeting in Greenwich.

During the week of Feb. 12 meetings will be held in North Haven, Centerville, Guilford, Cheshire, Branford and Madison. Helen G. Sherwood.

MANY CHURCHES HELP VOTES FOR WOMEN Successful Effort by the Woman Suffrage Party of Greater New York to Enlist Their Aid The effort being made by the Party to awake the churches of the city to a sense of their duty and responsibility toward the woman suffrage movement is bringing fruit, under the guidance of the Rev. Marie Jenney Howe. At the first public meeting called to enlist public interest, the following resolutions were passed:

Whereas, the aim of organized women has always been toward humanitarian effort, and whereas, the aim of organized religion has always been toward humanitarian effort, therefore be it Resolved, That the enfranchisement of wemen should be the common conviction of an enlightened womanhood and an enlightened church. Whereas, this humanitarian motive of women and this humanitarian motive of the church is one and the same; therefore, be it

Resolved, 1. That the movement for the welfare of children should be our mutual concern. 2. That improved conditions of labor for the millions of working women should be. our mutual concern. 3. All striving for higher morality and improved social conditions should be our mutual concern. 4. All suffering of the weak, and an abuse of the weak by the strons. should be our mutual concern. Whereas, the sreatest enemy of woman suffrage is the power of organized vice; therefore, be it

E WOMAN'S JOURNAL. FEBRUARY 17, 1912 Resolved, That the greatest friend has not deserted ner, out of her sep- ADVER of woman suffrage should be the power arate property when he has no separ— of organized righteousness. ate property and he is unable from Whereas, the moral force of women infirmity to support himself. Hus- PRINTE is a power unused by this State, band and wife are jointly and severaltherefore, be it ly liable for debts contracted for

Resolved, That we, the Woman Suffrage Party of the City of New York, do call upon the ministers and churches of this city to aid us in our effort for a voice in government, because that voice in government will give power to the latent moral impulse of women, which is unsocialized, unrecognized and almost powerless in New York State today.

Since then the following letter has been sent out to all the ministers in the city:

The Woman Suffrage Party, numbering over 40,000 in the City of New York, asks you as a progressive minister to bring the question of woman suffrage to the members of your church in one or more of the following ways: 1. To allow a woman suffrage speaker to preach in your church a sermon on democracy. 2. To allow a woman suffrage speaker to address an allied society of your church.

3. To preach a sermon yourself bringing the subject of woman suffrage to the attention of your congregation on May 12th, which we seek to have set apart as Woman's Day. 4. To send to the Woman Suffrage Party, room 212, Metropolitan Life Building, a list of church members or friends who believe in equal suffrage. 5. To see that the enclosed resolutions are read in some meeting of your church.

Is the time not here when all thinking people must realize that woman can never render her best service to either church or State until she has the dignity and protection of the ballot, and is the time not here when, believing this, the best elements of society should openly take their stand? In California and Washington, where women have been so recently enfranchised, the church has shown itself the strong advocate of equal justice. Must the women of the East expect less from the church of the East?

An answer to this letter will be greatly appreciated, as we who love the church are deeply interested to see it take the right stand on this great issue. Many churches have signified their willingness to open their doors as requested. Among them are churches of the Episcopal, Congregational, and Unitarian denominations. This is a line of work which might well be extended elsewhere.

LEGAL STATUS OF WOMEN

North Dakota

Mrs. Lillian Lillibridge, secretary of the Equal Suffrage Club of Dickinson, N. D., sends the answers to the questions regarding the legal status of women for North Dakota. They were prepared by Mr. W. F. Burnett. 1. Does the wife after marriage own her clothes and other personal property owned by her before marriage? Yes. 2. Does a wife own her wages earned outside the home? Yes.

Can she by law enforce payment for her services performed in the home for husband and children? No, neither can the husband enfoerce payment for services performed in the home. 3. What authority has the husband over the wife's real estate or the rental therefrom? None whatever. 4. May a wife convey her separate property without her husband's consent? Yes.

5. Can a wife's separate property be levied on for family necessaries ordered by her, and if the necessaries are consumed by the family can she secure payment? The statute provides that husband and wife contract towards each other obligations of mutual respect, fidelity and support. The husband must support himself and his wife out of his property or by his labor. The wife must support the husband when he

has not deserted ner, out of her separate property when he has no separate property and he is unable from infirmity to support himself. Husband and wife are jointly and several ly liable for debts contracted for necessaries for themselves and ehildren. 6. Does the law secure to a wite any portion of the family income free from husbandly dictation?

Except as stated in the answers to question five, neither husband nor wife has any interest in the property or income of the other, except that nmeither can be excluded from the other's dwelling. 7. What share has the wife in the surplus of property, real or personal, accumulated by their joint efforts after marriage, or does a husband take this surplus in his own name?

There is no provision of law governing this. It is left to the agreement of the parties. Any contract made between husband and wife can be enforced. Otherwise each is entitled to keep his or her own earnings, subject to provisions as to support. 8. Has a husband any other control over his wife's personal property or liberty, except that which comes from his general control over the family pocketbook? Husband has no control over personal property or liberty of wife.

9. Are spouses' interests in each other's real estate equal, and do they inherit equally from each other and from a deceased child? (a) They have no interest in each other's real estate. (b) They inherit equally from each other. (c) If deceased child has neither husband nor wife, nor child surviving, the estate goes to the father; if he is dead, to the mother. 10. Is the wife entitled to a voice in the choice of the family home?

Statute provides that husband is the head of family. He may choose any reasonable place or mode of living and wife must conform thereto. 11. What is the punishment for wife desertion? Imprisonment in jail not to exceed one year, in penitentiary from one to three years, or fine not exceeding $500, or both fine and imprisonment. 12. What are the legal causes for divorce, and are they the same for both spouses?

The legal causes for divorce are: Aduiltery, extreme cruelty, wilful desertion, wilful neglect, habitual intemperance, conviction of felony. 13. Is the wife legally responsible for the support of the children and her husband? Yes, under certain circumstances. See answer to question No. 5. 14. Has she a right to share in the children's earnings? The father has a right to the earnings of the minor child. But if he fails to support the family, then the mother is entitled to earnings.

15. Is a father liable for some family expenses for wife and child, if the expense is one of which he disapproves? Yes. 16. Is a wife entitled to a share in the guardianship and control of the children, so that her wishes may guide in the choice of church, school, clothing, medicine and work? Yes. 17. Can a father will away from the mother the custody of their unborn child?

18. Are husband and wife legally competent to testify for or against each other when either one is a party in an action of law? Neither husband nor wife can testifty against the “other without the other's consent, except in a civil action by one against the other, or in a criminal action for a crime committed by one against the other. 19. May a wife make contracts or enter partnerships without her husband's consent? Yes.

20. Are the public schools, from the lowest grade to the State University, open to girls on the same terms as to boys? Are women represented on the Boards of Control of these various schools?

21. Are women employed in the igher positions in these schools? Yes. 22. Do the salaries paid the women

We beg to announce that we are printers of many well known publications, among them “7h: Woman's Journal." If have booklet, a Open day and night. E. L. GREs ComPANy r23 Pearl St., Boston, Mass.

D s.

D s.

PRIMROSE ORANGE PEXOE Everywhers Most Popular 20 cents and this coupon will buy a regular 36c can at your grocer's or at 5 Commercial Whf., Boston

INVESTMENTS

Independent women investors are realizing the value of our shares and in consequence we have only a few remaining unsold. We want to have you learn about the BEST income producer, for the longest time of any investment with which you are familiar: our DIXIE PECAN GROVES. PAPER SHELL PECANS ARE BEING USED SO MUCH THAT AT PRESENT THEY ARE BRINGING $1 PER POUND AT THE TREE, WITH THE DEMAND MANY HUNDRED TIMES THE AVALL- ABLE SUPPLY. WE DO NOT FIGURE MORE THAN 35 CENTS PER POUND.

Let us send you our booklet, “A Royal Income from the King of Nuts," so that you may learn something of our investment and what other people know about a safe yet profitable place to put your surplus.

E. W. DENNISON 132 North Grove Street East Orange, N. J.

JACOBS' 1912 EUROPEAN TOURS An Ideal Summer Vacation would be our five weeks' COACHING TOUR OF THE BRITISU ISLES, adding the Continent if desired. Prospectus gives full particulars. Address C. W. JACOBS, Drawer “J,"

Rock Valley, Ia.

average as high as the salaries paid the men? If not, what ratio do they bear to the salaries paid men?

23. Are any of the County Superintendents of Schools women? Has any State Superintendent been a woman? (a) Yes. (b) Yes. 24. For what school officers may women vote? How many others are there?

26. Are women admitted to the Bar?

27. To what elective offices are women eligible through special enactment, and to what because of lawmakers' omission of words “male" or “men"? Are these positions salaried? (a) To offices under school laws by special enactment. (b) Yes. 28. May the apparent equal justice of your civil service laws be evaded if a head of a department prefers a man rather than a woman who may have had higher marks?

No civil service laws. 29. Are any women on the Boards of Control of State charitable istitutions?

30. Must women matrons, keepers, physicians or nurses be employed in the State and county and city institutions having the custody of women and girls? Women are so employed in State institutions. No special provisions in regard to county or city. Larger counties and cities have women keep-

If man 38. again youn

year. tiary not both

ANNOUNCEMENTS

ANNOUNCEMENTS Ouaker City Office Supply Co. PHILADELPHIA, 39 South 10th St. Circular Letters, Cards, Announcements, Berkshire Typewriter Papers

Ouaker City Office Supply Co. PHILADELPHIA, 39 South 10th St. Circular Letters, Cards, Announcements, Berkshire Typewriter Papers

40. disfr effor them (a the resid six n vious exce

Send 25 cents and get one dozen sheets of our best carbon paper.

LECTURE

41. quall your

Equal Suffrage Program "MAN, WOMAN'S EQUAL"

NOoO 42. the ters In office 43. has tend

Delightful entertainment; full of laughs; especially interesting to men; convert-making. For circulars, terms and dates, address EMILY MONTAGUE BISHOP, 600 W. 192d St., New York City

44. tiona wom cffice office

LAUNDRESS Swedish woman, expert in fine hand laundry, would like a few private families' laundry work. Address Box 303, Woman's Journal Office.

An tend must elect eral

HOUSEWORK.—Armenian of 20, with excellent recommendation from former employer, wants place, preferably In private family where he can improve his English. Can read and write English, but not speak it fluently. Address Olan Shirinian, 57 Market Street, Lynn, Mass.

TH

NURSE OR CHAUFFEUR.—Armenian with four years' experience as nurse, seven as chauffeur, and twelve in drug store, wants work in either line. Speaks Englist and French; has first-rate references. Ad- Aris Garinian, 28 Kneeland Street, ston.

Man; Pe the the

HOUSE OR STORE.—Armenian teacher, here to take normal course, could not fol. low lectures at Normal School for lack of practice in hearing English, though well spoken slowly. Wants housework or other Job where he can hear English talked, Bxcellent reference as to character. Address Bartevian, 253 Shawmut Avenue, ston.

A bitio Hall after 28, b Thos to th (with Mon Mone presi socie

iLINGI AL SUFFRAGE ASSO

938 Fine Arts Blds., Chicaso, Dublishes the following literature: “Bridget's Sisters," a suffrage play; per copy.......... 256 “Why," a two-page leaflet; per thousand........... $2.00 “Shall Men Vote?" leaflet; per thousand........... $2.50 Illinols Chronology, leaflet; per thousand........... $2.50 Mayors of Five States; per hundred .. Bible on Woman Suffrage; r o Laws of Illinois; per copy.. 10c “Mr. Lex," in paper covers; Handsome crepe paper, yellow-bordered suffrage napkins; per thousand..... $4.00 Per hundred............ 50c

Th benet furth and Wom nmame The Leag sor, Mrs. Duan Scolls Rhod Imog secret

ers, etc.,, for women and girls.

ers, etc.,, for women and girls.

31. Are women physicians received as jurors in insanity cases where the statute may provide that one of the jurors shall be a physician? They are not usually appointed, but there is no provision against their appointment. 32. Does your law prohibit night work of women and girls? No law merely limits number of hours women may work. Law prohibits night work by sgirls. 33. Does your law provide sanitary regulations for factories and shops where women are employed, or prescribe hours of labor? Yes. 34. What is the “age of consent"? Sixteen years. 35. What is the minimum punishment for rape? Rape in the first degree, not less than five years in the penitentiary. Second degree, from one to fifteen years. 36. What is the punishment for bastardy? Judgment in bastardy cases is within the discretion of trial judge, Defendant may be imprisoned and compeliod to ppt

The Penns H. In orary Kelly Patte Miss Stever ter; Sophi Mrs. LaAwes

Coll Penns Miss dents, Carey Cochr ence secret urer,

The the Co the W Jane vice-p kins, spondi dolph; Elisab Mary

--- page 7 ---
39. What is the punishment for pandering? jall sentence not to exceed one year. Imprisonment in the penitentiary not to exceed five years; fine not to exceed one thousand dollars, or both such fine and imprisonment. 40. What classes of persons are disfranchised? May lapse of time o oythedisrachisedenable them to become eligible?

(a) Persons who are not citizens of the United States. Men who have not resided within the State one year and six months within the county next previous to election. Indians. Women except in school matters. (b) Yes. 41. Is women's taxpaying as a qualification for voting recognized in your State?

44. 1Is it necessary that a constitutional amendment be passed before women be allowed to vote for certain cfficers? If so, what are these officers?

hand fami- 303,

Answer to 43 and 44: Any law extending right of suffrage to women must be adopted by a majority of the electors of the State voting at a general election. W. F. Burnett.

with emivate glish. peak n, 57

THE COMING BAZAAR IN PHILADELPHIA

Many Attractive Features of the Pennsylvania Suffrage Fair, Part of the Proceeds of Which Are to Go to the National

cher, fol. ck of well it if other Exdress enue,

A Woman Suffrage Bazaar and Exhi bition will be held at Horticultural Hall on Tuesday and Wednesday afternoons and evenings, Feb. 27 and 28, beginning each day at 3 P. M. Those desiring to contribute articles to the sale are requested to send them (with prices marked), to the hall on Monday or Tuesday of that week. Money or checks can be given to the presidents of the different suffrage societies.

L . 5c 00 50 50 00 5c oc 7e 00 oc

Five Societies Cooperating This Bazaar is to be given for the benefit of the following societies, to further their work in the great cause, and to aid the National American Woman Suffrage Association. The nmames and officers are as follows:

The Pennsylvania Limited Suffrage League: President, Miss Mary Winsor, Haverford, Pa.; vice-presidents, Mrs. John R. Pettit, Mrs. Russell Duane, Mrs. Oswald Chew, Mrs. John Scollay, Miss Elizabeth McKean Rhodes, recording secretary, Mrs. Iimogen B. Oakley; corresponding secretary and treasurer, Mrs. Edward Y. Hartshorne.

eived e the the

The Equal Franchise Society of Pennsylvania: President, Miss Mary H. Ingham, 333 S. 16th street; honorary vice-president, Dr. Howard Kelly; vice-presidents, Mrs. C. Stuart Patterson, Mrs. Charlemagne Tower, Miss M. Carey Thomas, Mrs. Cornelius Stevenson, Mrs. William Rotch Wister; corresponding secretary, Miss Sophia W. Dulles; recording secretary, Mrs. Wilfred Lewis; treasurer, Mrs. Lawrence Lewis, Jr.

Collese Bqual Suffragse League, Pennsylvania Branch: President, Miss Margaret Hudson; vice presidents, Miss Mary H. Ingham, Miss M. Carey Thomas, Miss Nanny Travis Cochran, Mrs. J. W. Schell, Miss Florence Sanville, Mrs. Thomas Williams; secretary, Mrs. Scott Nearing; treasurer, Miss Amy C. Bowman.

The Woman Suffrage Association of the County of Philadelphia (including the Ward Leagues): President, Miss Jane Campbell, New Century Club; vice-presidents, Mrs. George H. Perkins, Mrs. Mary C. Morgan; corresponding secretary, Miss Dorothy Randolph; recording secretary, Mrs. Elisabeth Price Burns; treasurer, Mrs. Mary S. Kenderdine.

e THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL. FEBRUARY 17, 1912 The Equal Franchise Leasue of inent women from all the societies are SUFFR. Lansdowne: President, Mrs. Aldrich on this committee. J. Pennock; vice president, Miss Anna Talks on the subject will be given NAT Woolman; secretary, Miss Mary L. by Mr. Harry Cassidy, Mr. La Wall, Yarnall; treasurer, Mrs. Willlam J. Miss Alice Boughton and Mrs. Annmna—————————— Suplee. Scott during the intermission of the of Officers of the Fair orchestra.

Many months aso the preparation for the Bazaar was begun by Miss Mary Winsor, the originator of the event in Philadelphia. Meetings were called, and the four suffrage societies in the city and the one in Lansdowne decided to work together. The president of the Suffrage Bazaar and Exhibition is Miss Mary H. Ingham, the secretary is Miss Sarah W. Tomkins, a member of the College Equal Suffrage League, and the treasurer is Mr. John H. Ingham, a member of the Equal Franchise Society.

The Executive Cemmittee consists of two representatives from each society. There are also 15 sub-committees and 150 workers from the societies.

Will Help Convert the indifferent The work has been going on all winter by these ardent suffragists. They will be assisted at the Bazaar and Exhibition by those somewhat weak in the faith and by others who, as they express it, are still “on the fence." No doubt one good result of this Exhibition will be the conversion of many doubtful and indifferent men and women, as well as Antis, to “Votes for Women."

There are to be numerous unique and amusing booths, the usual oldfashioned fair tables, a pageant and other entertainments. It is expected that enough exciting and interesting events and articles of use and beauty have been provided for both sexes and all ages to draw a large attendance; also to induce them to spend their mceney, not only to keep it from burning a hole in their pockets, but at the same time to assist in the good work of raising women to a higher status. The Historic Pageant

The principal entertainment will be the Historic Pageant called “A Dream of Brave Women," arranged by Mrs. Otis Skinner of the Pennsylvania Limited Suffrage League, to be held on Tuesday evening and Wednesday afternoon. She will read between the tableaux some poems written by Mrs. Wilfred Lewis of the Equal Franchise Society. The scenes will be divided into Colonial, Revolutionary and Modern. These will represent Pocahontas, Priscilla and John Alden, Molly pitcher, Lydia Darrach, Mrs. John Adams, Lucretia Mott, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan B. Anthony and others.

Jarley's Wax Works Another display will be the old Mrs. Jarley's Wax Works, with modern suffrage personalities added. There will also be dancers and opera singers, with an amusing plot running through the performance. Suffrage Pantomimes An exhibition of suffrage pantomimes will be in charge of Miss Emily Perkins. An Authors' Auction

There will be an Authors' Auction of modern autographed books, contributed by the writers. This is in charge of Mrs. Scott Nearing, and will be conducted by some notable personage, probably Walter Crane, the actor. Miss Mary Winsor will have a Suffrage Rummage Sale on Tuesday aftermoon. She will sell a choice let of prejudices, superstitions, fallen idols, worn-out ideals, second-hand household goods, antique furniture and antiquated notions. The auction will be followed with an original burlesque, in which “Mrs. Grundy," “Mrs. Partington,' “The Mad Hunter" and “The Auctioneer," will be impersonated by Mrs. J. Howard Reber, Mrs. Robert Geddes, Miss Helena Balbirnie and Miss Winsor.

A Poiling Booth One of the most exciting, as well as educaticnal, features will be a Polling Booth, in charge of Miss Jane Campbell. Female novices will here have an opportunity of learning “how to do it," for ten cents! Palmistry by Paimyra will be one of the attractions. A Pure Food Exhibit One of the mest important features will be the Pure Food Exhibit, which will occupy all the lower floor. Mrs. Rudolph Blankenburg and other prom-

inent women from all the societies are on this committee. Talks on the subject will be given by Mr. Harry Cassidy, Mr. La Wall, Miss Alice Boughton and Mrs. Anna Scott during the intermission of the Other interesting Sections The Literature Booth, covered with suffrage posters and piotures, will be one of the novel arrangements. This will be in charge of the Ward Leagues, and they will also show the gallery of notable suffragists.

The Domestic Table In the lobby on the second floor will be the Domestic Table, conducted by Mrs. Henry Justice of the Suffrage Society of the County of Philadelphia. In the same place the Fancy Table will exhibit articles of needlework and ornaments, presided over by Mrs. Kahn of the Pennsylvania Limited Suffrage League. The Children's Hour

The children will not be forgotten, for there will be a Children's Hour on each day from four to five, with shadow pictures in charge of Miss de Coursey. Miss Julia Williamson will tell fairy stores of Peter Pan, etc. A doll table and a 5 and 10-cent table will teach the boys and girls how to spend their pennies in a good cause.

There will be a cafe in the foyer. Mrs. Willlam H. Stewart of the Equal Franchise Society will be in charge of this social adjunct. Luncheon, dinner, afterncon teas and ice cream will be served by attractive young women aids. Tables can be reserved in advance for dinner parties. All the foregoing features and other events and tables will be mentioned in the Suffrage Bazaar Magazine, which will contain the program. Anne Lane Scollay. Member of the Press and Publicity Committee of the Bazaar.

GOSSIP AND GLEANINGS

Mrs. Johanna Munter writes from Copenhagen: “I have just had a letter from Mrs. Catt, from Cairo. She is sorry to be prevented by the war from soing to China."

The Ward Leagues of Philadelphia are to hold a second theatre benefit performance on Feb. 19. “Rebecca of Sunnybrock Farm" will be given at the Broad Theatre.

There is a large College Equal Suffrage League at the University of Nebraska, with Miss L. Alice Howell as president. It is soon to give a banquet and present the play, “How the Vote Was Won."

Miss Alice M. Broughton is the superintendent of luncheons for the Home and School League of, Philadelphia, which has just issued its first annual report on its work in serving luncheons in the public schools of that city. The luncheons are divided into two classes, one costing one cent, the other three cents. During a single month 8,052 one-cent and $800 three-cent luncheons were served in a single school.

Fraulein Gertrude Wocker, of Berne, thirty-three years old, has just taken up her post as professor of natural philosophy at the University of Leipsig, in Germany, having been called there by the German government. She is the youngest accredited professor at a university in Germany, and the only woman to hold such a place. The Countess van de Ladevaden was nominated as professor at the University of Bonn, but the university authorities refused to sanction the appointment. so Leipsig wins the historic credit.

The nine-year-old daughter of the Governor of Tennessee is said to be a “militant suffragette," while neither of her parents claims to be in favor of suffrage. A twelve year-old school sirl in Kansas is reported as adaressing large school meetings in behalf of votes for women. A ten-year-old girl in Los Angeles did heroic work for the cause during the California campaign; and a little twelve-year-old actress in New York holds suffrage ings between acts at the theater.

A Suffrage Answer to An Anti-Suffrage Platform A new leafiet, in parallel columns. Every legislator should receive one this session ......... Per 100 Also good for general use............. Postpaid

By Mrs. Harper The World Movement for Woman Suffrage ......... Postpaid How Six States Won Woman Suffrage ............... Postpaid By Mrs. Porritt The Causes of the Revolt of the Women in England... Postpaid The Militant Suffrage Movement in England ......... Postpaid The Political Duties of Mothers .................. Postpaid Postpaid

WHIAl WOUSMEN sMioni bo wililn 1IHE DBALLO1 A new series of pamphlets by eminent authors. Twelve are in preparation. The following four ready nmow: The Abolition of Child Labor By Florence Kelley The Abolition of White Slave Traffic .05 50 By Clifford G. Roe Postpaid Reasonable Postal Laws By James L. Cowles 06 54 Fire Prevention By Arthur E. McFarlane Does the Husband Support the Wife? By Emmeline Pethick Lawrence, Editor of “Votes for Women," and Charlotte Perkins Gilman, Editor of “The Forerunner"........ .05 50 Postpaid 06 59 Report of the Special Commission Appointed by the Chamber of Deputies on the Workings of Woman Suffrage All Over the World Resume translated by Mrs. Raymond Brown.... .05 50 Postpaid 06 58 Women Should Mind Their Own Business By Prof. E. J. Ward Why Man Needs Woman's Ballot 3 for .06 25 By Clifford Howard Postpaid 06 29 When All the Women Want it By Alice Stone Blackwell Disfranchisement By Dr. W. E. Burghardt Du Bois.............. 05 50 Postpaid 06 54 Breaking into the Human Race hota Childe Dorr...5 05 50 Postpaid 08 fe

Rainbow Fliers in German ..............Per 100 15 20 The New America Per copy Per 100 Suffrage Song Used in the California Campaign 01 75 Postpaid .02 1

PENNANTS

“The Ladies Battle" An Answer to Molly Elliott Seawell By Alice Stone Blackwell Mrs. Howe's Census Extracts from a Canvass of the Clergy in the Suffrage States Gains in Equal Suffrage A Table Showing the Progress in the Past Eighty Years

A Woman's Calendar

THE NEW STICKER or SEAL An adaptation of the design showing Liberty welcoming the new star— California. Use them on all your letters and parcels. Neatly put up in oiled paper books of 100. Price, per book ........ $0.75 Price, 10 books .............. 5.00 NEW PICTURE POSTER For advertising meetings Space left for date and place. Size 36 x 42 in. Printed in purple, green and white Price, singly—10c. Postpaid—.15 Per doz.—$1.00 Postpaid—$1.25

VOTES FOR WOMEN NOTH PAPER Dainty colors in dainty boxes PALE BLUE Lettered in silver PALE YELLOW Lettered in gold. 6oc Per Box Postpaid NEW SIiX STAR BUTTONS One cent each. 75 cents per 100. Postpaid 85 cents cer 100.

Votes for Women Rubber Stamps Lotters this size —VOTES FOR WOMEN — The easiest way in which you can advertise the cause. . Stamp every letter you write this year.

price 15 cents, post paid.

SLIDE LECTURES 65 Suffrage Pictures with typewritten lecture to accompany them. Can be delivered by any one. Rent of slides and lecture, $5 plus expressage. Special rates by the week or month.

55

Per Per Copy Doz. o1 10 02 12 05 50 06 54 .03 30 04 34 03 30 04 34 o1 10 .02 14 o1 10 02 13

Postpaid Per 100 .15 20

VOTES FOR WOMEN BUTTERFLIES A NEW KIND OF SUFFRAGE BADGE They stick tight Wherever they light, Try them and see. dood as Favors at Fairs, Luncheons and Teas, or to sell at meetings. Two for Five cents. $2.00 per 100. Postpaid $2.20 per 100. NEW, POST, CARD Liberty welcoming the sixth star. 0 .. ENCLISH POST CARDS

C Prejudice Justice.... An artistic picture issued by the Artists' Suffrage League. Price .......... Five Cents Each CALIFORNIA POPPIES Good as decoration. They are gay and yellow and each is tied with a votes for women ribbon. 2 for 25c $1.50 Per Dozen

Votes for Women Paper Napkins

Just the Thing for Teas, Luncheons, Etc. Decorated with a Blue “Votes for Women" Border Order now Price 35 cents per 100, post paild.

Price 35 cents per 100, post pald. PHOTOCRAPH CALLERY of EMINENT SUFFRACISTS An interesting eollection of portraits, mounted on canvas, all ready for hanging as a temporary exhibition. The gallery may be reuted to any suffrage association for the nominal fee of $1.00 plus expressage.

--- page 8 ---
THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL. FEBRUARY 17, 1912

56 —— AS SUFFRAGE MARCHES O By Mrs. H. M. Pierce

(Tune, “Battie-Hymn of the Republic" The Stars and Stripes attest our rights; An emblem of the free, It waves aloft our principles, Proclaiming Liberty. We will rally to its standard, And this means you and me, As Time goes marching on.

n

(Chorus) Glory! Glory! Hallelujah! Glory! Glory! Hallelujah! Glory! Glory! Hallelujah! As Suffrage marches on. We all are free and equal Iin God's most holy sight; We are asking for the ballot Because it is our right; Success will crown our efforts When we realize our might, For Truth is marching on. (Chorus)

Reforms will sweep the nation When we all vote side by side, And equity and purity In politics abide. Votes for women is cur slogan, We'll spread it far and wide AS we go marching on.

(Chorus)

Our clarion call is freedom, How can it ever fail? Equality before the law, At last it must prevail. We only claim our birthright And who can that assail, While Justice marches on?

(Chorus)

River Forest, Ill.

NOMEN ARE NEEDED ON SCHOOL BOARDS

An Effort Is Made to Have Their Ap pointment Mandatory — Opinions Pro and Con

The Mayor of San Francisco has just appointed a woman to the scheol board, to fill a vacancy. He says that this is distinctly appropriate, since the women of California now have the ballot. At about the same time the Mayor of a small city in New York refused to appoint one, saying that it would be time encugh to put women on the school board when women set the right to vote. Los Angeles now has a woman on the school board for the first time in fourteen years.

A bill has been introduced in the New Jersey Legislature to require that there shall be at least one woman on every school board. It ought to pass. Thus far the antisuffragists have issued no formal protest against it. When a bill requiring some women on every school board was pending in the New York Legislature in 1899, the Albany Anti-Suffrage Association sent an appeal to the legislators te vote against it, describing it as lesislation which “threatens the home, threatens the sacredness of the marriage tie, threatens the church, and undermines the foundation of our great republic They would hardly say that now. Even the Antis have learned something in thirteen years.

President Taft, though a conservative, scratched his ticket at the last electicn in order to vote for Miss Campbell for the Cincinnati board of education, and expressed his opinion that there ought to be a woman on every school board. In Louisiana the last Legislature decided that it would subvert the foundations of society to make women eligible to school offices, and Grafton D. Cushing, the antisuffrage Speaker of the Massachusetts House of Representatives, is reported as saying that women are not fitted to serve on schocl boards.

Meanwhile, throughout a large part of the United States, they are servins, and serving well.

THE LABOR VOTE

The “Silk-Stocking" Precinct in San Francisco Gave Heavier Vote Against Equal Suffrage Than Did Even Chinatown and the Tenderioin, While Decent Working People's Neighborhoods Gave Big Vote for it Maud Younger of San Francisco writes:

“The labor vote is a powerful factor. Without it you cannot win. In San Francisco, the one silk-stocking precinct went against us five to one, and the other precincts cof the same class ran about even with the Tenderloin and Chinatown, three or three and one-half to one against us; in labor districts we got from 40 to 48 per cent.

Francisco, we every other town in the State where labor is strons. The labor movement here was very much afraid of the reactionary effect of woman's vote. What the unions want to know is if the working women themselves want the ballot and will use it. Though I spoke to 128 unions in San Francisco, I always felt that the strongest plea was when a working sirl followed me and said, It is we, your own people, who ask you to do this, for it is the working women who will benefit most by suffrage and who will make use of the ballot."

WON BY A STRIKE

Women in Spain Will Henceforth Be Admitted to the Universities and to the Professions

As a result of the recent students' strike, the Spanish sovernment has promulgated a decree permitting women hereafter to be admitted to the Sbanish universities on the same terms as men. It is also provided that women shall be allowed to practice any profession for which their university training may fit them.

MISS PECK RETURNS WITH FRESH HONORS

Miss Annie E. Peck, the distinsuished mountain climber, has sot back to New York from the heart of the Andes, where she planted a “Votes for Women" flas upon one of the peaks cf Mt. Coropuna, some 22,000 feet high. Miss Peck was met at the pier by President Nellie B. Van Slingerland of the Joan of Arc Suffrage League and a number of its members, carrying the yellow and black flags of the society. Miss Peck has done wonderful things in the way of mountainclimbing, and her achievements are the more remarkable in that they have been accomplished with so little help.

OREGON AWAKE

Great Anti Daily Comes Out for Suffrage

The Portland Oregonian says: “The public will not be surprised to earn that the Oregon State Federaicn of Labor has declared for woman suffrage. It is nothing new, for organized labor has long been favorable to equality of the sexes at the ballot box. So with the State Grange. So also with the Socialists. So with other organizations that stand for change or reform or radical departure trom present conditions. Because the Socialists and the labor men and even the Grangers are and have been for woman suffrage, there is a body of citizens who have been against it; but they are realizing their mistake. Many desirable reforms have had their inspiration in unceasing sociallstic agitation or the constant importunities of organized labor, and many people are beginning to see that it is unwise to resist any movement for the mere reason that they do not like its origin. -

“But woman suffrage is not sociallstic mor unionistic. It is humanistic. It is educative, progressive and elevating. It is a part of the world-wide spread of intelligence and of the general leveling to a fixed political equality of all classes. It is the next inevitable step in the irresistible march of economic development and political opportunity.

“Never mind what the Socialists and labor men say. If they are for woman suffrage, every saloon, every undesirable resort, every criminal element, every tramp, every hobo, every selfish and grasping interest is against it. That is something more than a fair offset." Women May Win This Year in Oregon Under this heading, the Tacoma Ledger says:

“Prospects for the adoption of a woman suffrage amendment in Oregon are brighter this year than they have been in a long time. There is stll opposition, but adverse influences are fewer than formerly, and those who have kept in touch with the lons strugsle for votes for women are becoming more aud more confident that this year will see the adoption of a political equality amendment.

“One of the ndications of the trend of sentiment is the attitude this year of the Portiand Oregonian, which is supporting the measure, though in the past it vigorously fought it. “Signs point to a change of opinion in Oregon. The seneral impression that votes of women would constitute a radical disturbing force is being disproved. Not a few men are coming to believe that women are a more conservative force in polities than men."

NO “LADY VOTE" THERE We would ask the privilege of informing those newspapers in the East which refer to the “lady vote" in Los Angeles that the women of Los Angeles are more than ladies. They are, in the highest and noblest sense of the woerd, women.

The Los Angeles woman, inspired by a love for her splendid home city, asked the ballot. The manhood of California is proud today of having willingly accorded it. It is equally proud of the result, as demonstrated in Los Angeles. The issues that recently divided us in civic affairs have, it is hoped by all good citizens, opened our eyes to great moral demands, reconcilable with civic progress, and even imperative if common justice is to prevail.

Looking to the future, Los Angeles is fortunate, indeed, in the demonstrated civic spirit of her women voters. Differing in viewpoint, the women have proved their interest in civic problems, and Los Angeles is to be the richer and better for it.—Los Angeles Express. HUMOROUS

The teacher of a Sabbath school class approached one little fellow who was present for the first time, and inquired his name, for the purpose of placing it on the roll. “Well," said the youngster, “they call me Jimmie for short, but my maiden name is James."

A man went to an insurance office to have his life insured. “Do you cycle?" the insurance agent asked. “No," said the man. “Do you motor?" “No, no," said the applicant, laughing. “No." “Do you then, perhaps, fiy?" "I have no dangerous"— But the agent interrupted him curtly. “Sorry, sir," he said, "but we no longer insure pedestrians.'—Argonaut.

The New England landlady had been instructing Debutsky in English when a compatriot dropped in. Debutsky answered all questions in Eng lish, so that his friend might observe his progress. “The house is no good!" he declared, with an effort which cost him great mental concentration, “but the lady, she is a gentleman.'—New York Times.

“How can you expect women to develop sufficient ability to be trusted with the reins of sovernment, when so large a percentage of them think of nothing but dress?" “I can't see why the development shouldn't be brought about. Consider the percentage of men who think of nothing but baseball.'—Chicago Record-Herald.

A young teacher gave the children a talk on kindness to animals. The next day, when she was busy at her desk, she felt a little hand tugging at her sleeve. “Why, Pietro," she exclaimed, “what is the matter?" “Nothing, teacher. I just wanted to tell you how I was good to dumb animals yesterday." “Why, isn't that nice, Pietro Just what did you do?" Pietro drew himself up to his full three feet, and proudly declared, “I kissed the cat!"— San Francisco Chronicle.

In pioneer days a settler near the present town of Albany, Mo., bought for his wife the first cook stove ever seen in that part of the State. It was an object of sreat curiosity, and the woman's next door neighbor— who lived ten miles away—came to see how it would work.

Without comment she saw the dinnmer cooked; she ate the meal with judgment held in reserve, and then remared, with hae of the head: “Well, Sarah, it cooks all right, and the victuals taste good, but I don't beit will ever be a success.— Youth's Companion.

Do Women Need the Vote?

Laws are Made by Men, Enforced by Men Appointed or Elected by Men, but Women Have to Obey them

better go about his business, he placed her under arrest. Her resistance resulted in another officer's coming to the assistance of the first, and in the struggle the clothing of the girl was badly torn. On the testimony of the officer she was sentenced to the work-house.

This incident is taken from Alice L. Woodbridge's account in the report of the New York Women's Prison Association. The following story was taken from the same report “A perfectly innocent girl, employed at evening work at the telephone office, was accosted by a man in plain clothes to whom she gave a saucy answer and was arrested. She was convicted on the testimony of the officer, who swore she solicited him, and after having her finger prints taken, she was given the choice of probation or the work-house. The girl chose the workhouse because a fellow-worker, similarly insulted and arrested, having chosen probation, the probation officer sought information at her place of business, with the result that she was not only discharged, but blacklisted in every telephone office in the city."

This report, sent to me by Lavinia L. Dock of New York City, says further: “Of the thousands of young women brought into our Night Court yearly, 999 out of 1,000 are arrested by officers in citizen's dress sent out nightly from the various precincts to seek and arrest them. The testimony given by one is practically the testimony given by all, and usually runs as follows: “Officer: I was walking along Fourteenth street going West, between Broadway and Sixth Avenue, and this woman came up and spoke to me. “Magistrate: ‘What did she say?

“Officer: She asked me if I wanted a good time and I said yes, and asked her what the price would be. She said $2 and $1 for a room. Then I arrested her. “Magistrate to Prisoner: “You hear what this officer says? “Prisoner: “Yes, Sir, but I did not speak to him first. He came up and spoke to me first. I answered him and he arrested me. “Magistrate: “Are you a prostitute?" “Prisoner: “No, sir, I work for my living.

“Magistrate: 'What do you earn? Lesi “Prisoner Four dollars a week, and I cannot live on men it. Loeag “Magistrate: Have you ever been arrested before?" the “Prisoner: “No, sir." The This girl was ordered to the finger-print room and this sion, est will be made to count against her if ever she is Co ested again. “Thus," according to the report, “the word The ohin i af ad the

“Prisoner: “Four dollars a week, and I cannot live on that. “Magistrate: 'Have you ever been arrested before? “Prisoner: “No, sir." This girl was ordered to the finger-print room and this arrest will be made to count against her if ever she is arrested again. “Thus," according to the report, “the word of the officer almost invariably prevails. hounding of women by men in plain clothes, by men whose evidence is apparently manufactured, while thousands of men who throng our streets, subways and public conveyances soliciting and insulting women are ignored, is an outrage upon womankind."

What happened to the telephone operator and to the young Irish woman could happen to any unprotected woman who was in the street after dark. Yet read this scrap of conversation and consider how well it represents the attitude of that great body of American women who are neither suffragists nor anti-suffragists Two women were talking of their plans for attending the opera. Then one said, “By the way, we are to have a debate next week. You would never guess the subject." “What is it?" said the other. “Woman suffrage," was the answer, given with some hesitation. “Which side are you on?" “Well, I am not interested. I really know very little about the matter, either for or against it. But I think we have troubles enough without voting, don't you?"

The connection between the vote and living in the present-day world had evidently never dawned upon either of these women. They were, one would judge, conscientious women, kind-hearted women, women who had known sorrow. They apparently felt fully protected, and it never entered their minds that a poor niece of theirs, the daughter of a friend, or any young woman whom they might know in their every-day life might suffer from bad laws or the unequal enforcement of laws. And of course they felt no responsibility toward the women workers of America.

Woman suffragists know that women need the vote because the laws of the land are made by men, because they are enforced by men who are appointed or elected by men. They know that women and girls have to obey the laws even when they openly discriminate against women and even when they are an open menace to society and the race, as is the case of the laws enforced against prostitutes in the Night Court of New York City. Woman suffragists know that women need the vote not only for their own individual protection but more for the protection of other women, their sisters.

In our campaign for Votes for Women, it is net sufficient for suffragists to want the vote and to know why they want it. They must each and every one tax their resourcefulness to show other women the vital connection between laws and life, between the enforcement of laws and life! Every suffragist knows women who say, “I do not see why 1 should bother myself with Votes for Women." Take them the story of the Night Court victims and show them the connection. Agnes E. Ryan.

YOUNG Irish woman, employed as a domestic, was returning home after a Sunday evening out. She was approached by an officer in plain clothes and invited to walk with him. Upon her reply that she was mot accustomed to walk with strange men and that he had

hu Ba att pet me sh the lan oth me con

Head

Th Islan mew runni Theat frage times from Sara

Fair, throu Miss who i didly. dict a a day opport lay es The rience in goo

1W Teas Hall t Klenze Equal Wome given Noon downt ing for of Wo held o sram lic Tes

Equal 610, Bu ready cumula ties off itles."
