--- page 1 ---
THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL

O

VOL. XLIll NO. 8

A GREAT HEARING IN MARYLAND.

Nearly a Thousand Suffragists Crowd the State House at Annapolis—Distinguished Speakers Plead for the Women—Petitions from Every County in the State

A special train of six cars carried a huge delegation of suffragists from Baltimore to Annapolis last week to attend the legislative hearing on the petition that a constitutional amendment granting women full suffrage shall be submitted to the voters. All the Suffrage Associations of Maryland were represented, besides many other organizations of women and men. A large number of voters accompanied the women.

Delegate T. G. Campbell, who introduced the measure, opened the hearing by reading many telegrams of endorsement. Addresses were made by Mrs. Donald R. Hooker, Mrs. William J. Funck, Chairman John B. Hanna of the Republican State Central Committee, Miss Julia Rogers, Miss Btta Maddox, Miss Elizabeth Taylor, Congressman Edward Thomas Taylor of Coloaado and his wife, Mrs. J. B. Burns, Stevenson Williams, Miss Edith Hamilton, Miss Janet Richards, Miss Edna Annette Beveridge and Dr. Warren H. Lewis. Then Dr. Mary Sherwood presented a great quantity of women's petitions from all the counties of Maryland, besides endorsements and petitions from more than 36,000 men.

The earnestness of the women was shown by the unprecedented offer of Mrs. Donald R. Hooker that, if the Legislature would submit the amendment to the voters, the Suffrage Loagues of the State would bear ah the cost. The galleries were packed. The hearing was a really sreat occasion, and made a deep impression. Copies of the Maryland number of The Woman's Journal were sold on the special train going to Annapolis, and before it arrived, they were all sold out.

RHODE ISLAND ASTIR

Headquarters Open—Suffrage Booth at Food Fair—Stereopticon Lectures to Be Given—Various Meetings

The suffrage movement in Rhode Island has become very active. The nmew headquarters recently opened are running smoothly. The Scenic Theatre has arranged to have the suffrage slide lantern lecture given three times a day as soon as it is secured from National Headquarters. Mrs. Sara M. Algeo writes:

“We have taken a booth at the Food Fair, and are hoping to push it through successfully with the aid of Miss Hall, our new field secretary, who is taking hold of our work splendidly, Conservative estimates predict an attendance of three thousand a day at the Fair, which offers a fine opportunity for propaganda. We shall lay especial emphasis on the sale of The Woman's Journal, as past experience proves it the most productive in good results.

he er mwn rer ter ow he no

beey en. en en as the ow ual en,

“Two of a series of Neighborhood Teas have already been given to Miss Hall through the activity of Mrs. Von Klenze, the president of the College Equal Suffrage League. A talk on Women the World Around, was lately siven by Mrs. Maud Wood Park. Noon meetings are being held for the down-town woemen; an evening meeting for the Rhode Island Association of Working Women's Clubs will be held on Feb. 26, and a suffrage prosram has been arranged for the Public Teachers' Asscciation in March.

ffihoy rceeen ife why ake em

“Volunteer workers are needed at Equal Suffrage Headquarters, Room 610, Butler Exchange, Providence. Already a large amount of work is accumulating, alons with the opportunities offered by centralizing the activitles."

Official Organ of the National American Woman Suffrage Association

GEORGE WASHINGTON ADMONISHES B-k & (O.

) W a ; 4 h

Why not celebrate Washington's Birthday by resolving to tell the Truth?

WASHINGTON WOMEN SERVE ON THE JURY

Nomen Buy Fruit Trees With Jury Fees—One Plucky Woman Juror Secures First Conviction for Invading Fishers' Rights—Men of County So Pleased They Want to Send Her to the Legislature

Jury service is no novelty to Washington men. In Territorial days, from 1884 to 1888, women served on juries, with credit to themselves and to the State. Especially was the service of women on the juries effective in securing the enforcement of the law. Judge Roger S. Greene, one of the most eminent members of the Washingtton Bench, while a member of the Supreme Court of the Territory, in charging the grand jury at one time said:

“Twelve terms of court, ladies and gentlemen, I bave now held in which women have served as grand and petit jurors, and it is certainly a fact beyond dispute that no other twelve terms so salutary for restraint of crime have ever been held in this Territory. For nrteen years I have been trying to do what a judge ought, but have never till the last six months felt underneath and around me, in the degree every judge has a right to feel it, the upbuoying misght of the people in the line of the full and resolute enforcement of the law."

Many prominent women of Washington served on juries. Some enjoyed jury duty. One said she never learned so much in any two weeks in her life. Another said she had never earned so much so easily. Many a woman's juror fees were used to buy fruit trees or furniture for the little cabin in the woods, and in pioneer (Continued on Page 59)

SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1912

MAY TURN THE SCALE

MAY TURN THE SCALE

Nomen's Votes May Decide the Next Presidential Election, Dr. Tindall Says

Look cout for the women in the next presidential election This is the advice to politicians of Dr. William Tindall, secretary to the Board of Commissioners of the District, long-time friend of Susan B. Anthony and one of the vice-presidents of the State Equal Suffrage Association of the District of Columbia. Dr. Tindall has been compiling statistics about previous elections. He has discovered that six Presidents of the United States were elected by a smaller number of votes than those which woman suffrage States will control in the next electoral college.

The States now having woman sufmrage are California, Colorado, 1daho, Utah, Washington and Wyomins, with a total of 37 votes in the electoral college. Three other States, Kansas, Wisconsin and Oregon, may be brought into the woman suffrage ranks next November, which would increase the electoral college votes to 64. Dr. Tindall's statistics show that Presidents Adams, Jefferson, John Quincy Adams, Taylor, Hayes and Cleveland were elected by a majority of 37 votes or less. Politicians Surprise Him

“It is surprising to me," said Dr. Tindall, “that politicians are not tumbling over themselves in their eagermess to get upon the band wagon, especially in view of the fact that the States in which women vote for President and Vice-President will have 37 votes in the electoral college, and twice that number the nominating (Concluded on Page 59)

MORE FARMERS DECLARE FOR WOMAN'S BALLO

virginia Farmers' Union Asks Also that Girls Be Given a Square Deat at the State University

The Virginia Division of the Farmers' Educational and Co-operative Union of America endorsed woman suffrage at its recent annual meeting in Lynchburg, after listening to addresses by Miss Mary Johnston and Mrs. John H. Lewis. The convention also asked the Legislature to pass the bill providing for the co-ordinate education of girls at the State University.

HEARING SET FOR FEB. 26 IN MASSACHUSETTH

The legislative hearing on woman suffrage will be held in Room 240 at the State House on Monday, Feb. 26. at 7 P. M.

Mrs. James Bennett of Kentucky appeared before the Committee on Woman Suffrage of the U. S. Senate on Feb. 16, and urged that the proposed amendment to the Federal Constitution providing for the election of U. S. Senators by popular vote shall be widened to allow women also to take part in electing them.

Cleveland's progressive action in making Miss Mildred Chadsey its chief sanitary inspector has been received with much pleasure by the suffragists in England, where it is rare for responsible positions to be accorded to women. The Common Cause, the organ of the non-militant suffragists, hails it as “a most important step."

FIVE CENTS

WISCONSIN TEACHERS ASK VOTES FOR WOMEN

Say Women Are Able Not Only to Teach But to Vote Intelligently

The Northwestern Wisconsin Teachers' Association, at its recent annual meeting held in Oshkosh, adopted the following resolution “That we recognize the eminent service of woman in the educational work of the State. We belleve in her ability mot only to educate our children, but also to vote intelligently for the interest of cur homes and the general prosperity of the State."

A GOOD OMEN

History Repeats Itself in Ohio

Fortune favored the suffragists in the presentation to the Ohio Constitutional Convention of the report recommending the submission of the equal suffrage amendment to the voters. The report was presented by Chairman Kilpatrick at 2.45 o'clock, on the anniversary of the birth of Susan B. Anthony, and at the same hour that the roll call was taken in Congress years, aso when Wyomins was admitted as a State with equal suffrage in its constitution. Mrs. Harriet Taylor Upton, who sat in the gallery at Washington with Miss Anthony at that time, and heard the roll call, sat in the sallery in Columbus and saw the report so in, twenty out of twenty-one members of the committee having signed it. Marshall of Coshocton filed a minority report bearing only his own sisnature.

VOTES FOR WOMEN SHOULD BE GRANTED

Dean Joseph Villiers Denney of Ohio State University Speaks in Columbus for Equal Suffrage—Says Women Have Been Educated Up to the Point Where the Last Prize Is Just Before Them, and iIt Must Not Be Denled

The Sunday Evening Men's Meeting of Trinity Church, Columbus, was recently devoted to a discussion of equal suffrage. Dean Joseph Villiers Denney of the Ohio State University was the speaker of the evening, and was enthusiastically received. Prof. Denney said, in part:

The movement to secure equal suffrage is part of the larger movement to realize the democratic ideal in human society. Its growth is coincident with society's growing esteem for the individual.

In the progress of legislation and judicial interpretation concerning women and their rights and privileges, one fact stands out in prominence. Each concession has been an acknowledgment of individual personality. At the time when our forefathers declared that governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed, it was not recognized anywhere in law or in human society that a woman is a complete and self-competent personality. Now that fact has been so far established in human society and law as to warrant full sovernmental recognition. The mark and badge of full governmental recognition of personality is the ballot.

If full recognition is not the logical end, the granting of partial rights should never have been begun. Woman should have been kept in complete subjection, higher education should have continued to be a thing denied, and the theoretical unity of every woman with some man should not have been invaded by the humane progress of legislation and legal interpretation. Logically, the sranting of partial suffrage calls for the sranting of complete suffrage. Most of our (Concluded on Page 59)

--- page 2 ---
58

LOYAL TO A FRIEND By Frances A. Reed

— fine and fit, With your Sunday go-ter-meetin' harp and gown, I1f yer find a mite of chance to be peekin' throush the fence, Just watch the crowd outside a-waitin' roun'. If you see a little woman with a tired- Icokin' face, Tryin' hard to fix it with a srin, A hurryin' and a scurryin' to 1each the Golden Gate, Not feelin' very certain she'll get in; Jest sidle up to Peter, give his han' a cordial grip, An' tell him you are sure he's on the square, An' youll take it mighty frien'ly if he'll open up the gate An' welcome in the little woman there. If he says she isn't pious an' isn't much on looks, An' she'd give him pain an' trouble without en', You might tell him, in the strusgle she was never known to quit, An' was always mighty loyal to a frien'. An' of St. Peter, standin' an' alookin' down the years, Will see the frien' an' Master he had known, Deserted, hurt, an' needin' help a loyal frien' could give, An' how he'd left Him standin' there alone. So I think I see St. Peter draw his han' across his eyes, An' hitch his girdle-buckle up a hole, An' say, “Because you're loyal, not at all because you're good, Come in, your name is on the honor roll."

A SUFFRAGE BABY . By Amelia D. Peirce This little poem was written for Richard Holden Burke, who won the silver cup siven by the Chicago American for the baby prize at the Suffrage Bazar held at the La Salle Hotel, Chicago, recently.

I'm an equal suffrage “aby, And I need my mother's vote. She always knows what's good for me, And scemetimes men-folks don't. They say my milk's in politics My food and all I wear; Street-cleaning—sanitation— Let my mother do her share. So please give her the ballot. For she loves her home and me, And can't help you adjust things Without voting, don't you see? River Forest, Ill. PROF. ANSPACHE. PLEADS FOR EQUALITY He Makes a Spicy Argument in Be- Half of Votes for Women en Ananpahear ans

Prof, Louis Kauffman Anspache, sociologist, playwright and student of political economy and ethics, writes as follows on the anti-suffragist: 1t is a question of democra. Either youre for it or you're not. f you're for democracy of course you believe a woman should vote. If you're not, for God's sake change your goernment. “Destroying the Home"

The “anti" claims that suffrage will destroy the home. No, suff age won't, but your present industrial system willl. Women are being exploited under present conditions against men— sometimes against their own husbands. A man goes to an employer and says: “I can't work for you for less than $1.75 a day," and the employer says: “All right, I'll get a 90 cent woman." And why? Berause the woman has no organization, or a poor excuse of a union with no political force back of it.

This exploitation works out in hundreds of places in industrial New Ensland, where the father stays at home and spanks the children while the mother takes her dinner pail to the factory to fill a cheap job. Someone's got to feed the babies. The Question of “Chivairy” The “anti" argues that suffrage will menace chivalry. What does the factory woman know about chivalry?

The “anti" would narrow a woman's vision to her own four walls. But how about your women who haven't four walls? And your men, who are exploited so that they can't provide her with four walls? It's a mean, greasy ideal for any State to hold up to women—this idea of the fou walls. We provide prisoners with better than that.

THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL, FEBRUARY 24, 1912

The Ballot and the Home The “anti" argues that, siven the vote, woman would shun matrimony. Suffrage would undoubtedly keep her from marrying the wrong man. You talk about the sacrament of matrimony! Why, the greatest monstrosity of the age is the commercializing of love. Women marry to be provided for, to earn a living in what they think the easiest way. Economic independence of woman is the solution to the whole awful matrimonial tangle.

Equal Rights and Motherhood The “anti" says that suffrage will destroy the maternal instinct. They put up the same argument when women first began seeking college educations. It has been proved since that college women have 33 per cent. more and better children than other women.

$6 the Average Pay Six million women are employed in the United States at an average wage of less than $6 a week. Think how many must be earning $2—not enough to pay room rent. And you expect these women to be moral! You might as well tell a starving man he shouldm't steal bread as to tell one of these girls she shouldn't sell herself. You've got to get at the root of the evil—the

economic dependence of woman. Conscience More Needed Than Genius It is said woman has never done anything eminent to entitle her to the franchise. In democracy we don't need people who do eminent things mearly as much as we do people who can do common thinss conscientiously.

SUFFRAGE AND

SOLDIERING

Once in so often nowadays somebody rises to say that no woman should be allowed to vote unless she is able and ready to become a soldier or a policeman, and use a gun or a billy upon cccasion to preserve order or defend the State. We suddenly learn that only potential fighters are proper citizens, and that the true State is a latent army. “Government is based on force" is the fashionable phrase which seems to be giving very considerable glee to a little coterie of opponents of woman suffrage. “Eliminate from government this element of force," writes one of them recently to a Boston newspaper, “and its sole excuse for existence is removed. All public functions requiring merely voluntary concerted action of citizens, without force, can be and are performed by private or non-governmental agencies."

This notion is to mest democratic people at this time of day a little surprising. We are accustomed to think that the conception of the State as the voluntary cooperation of the people for promoting their common ends in an efficient and adequate manner, as could not be done individually or by little groups, is the true conception. This would appear to be not only an “excuse" for the existence of the State, but most modern men would certainly agree that it was its real end and definition. That governments require police and military force for various purposes is unquestionable; mebody certainly ever heard of woman suffragists questioning it. Boston has a few thousand policemen; and the United States has perhaps a hundred thoeusand soldiers, quite enough for every need of its ninety million people. It has many more butchers and bakers, equally indispensable to every people, and rendering services equally mecessary to all citizens, men and women, although, in the proper division cf labor, the service, like the police service, is the service of men. Neither the one thing nor the other has anything to do with the voting system, or with qualification for voting.

The curious thing is that it is only mowadays and for the sake of opposing woman suffrage that this silly contention has made its appearance. Nobody ever heard eligibility for military service urged as a condition or qualification for man's suffrage. There is no nation on earth where a man is allowed to vote because he can fight, or where he is not allowed to vote because he cannot fight. The mere proposition to subject voting men to such a test or definition would produce a popular outcry about milltary despotism from the very men now urging the test against women. Yet the only possible excuse or pretext for such a test belonged to the military past, when war was often the

resuiar and almost the chief business of nmations. It has no relevancy what ever to the present, when war has long ceased to be that. No contingency is conceivable when even a tithe of our able-bodied youns men would be required for national defence. If. ever such exigencies should arise as once arcse at Harlem and Leyden, we have no doubt that the women in the besieged cities of America would do their part as “manfully" as those women in Holland.

I have said that no man ever escaped military service because he was not a voter, or was allowed to vote because he was a soldier. I wonder how many of our people know how many of our soldiers in the Civil War were voters? Out of less than three millions who enlisted, more than two millions were not twenty-one years old; there were about 600,000 voters. The millions were literally “boys" in blue.

By curious and rather srateful irony, at this very time when we are hearing that wemen should not vote because they are not sood fighters, along comes Rudyard Kipling with probably the worst of his many bad pieces of doggerel, proclaiming that the trouble with woman is that she is so many kinds of a fighter, and such a dangerous fighter. “The female is more deadly than the male." So the Kilkenny cats may be left to fight it out and destroy each other, while rational men and women go on together in the patient and confident work of organizing the world upon a rational basis, which is not the basis of battle or the barracks.

Edwin D. Mead.

ZONA GALE ANSWERS

To the many people who are sure equal suffrage is coming, and who make no effort to help bring it about Zona Gale, author of Friendship Vil lage, responds “But they say Democracy is com ing. Why do we need to agonize and glory in the work of bringing it? Why so hot, little man? I have a friend who knows. She says:

““Whenever I see a good change come sticking up its head, I always think: “Well, you're a nice new change and I can see you're comin' along all right. I guess T'll go and sit down and rest till you get here. But as soon as I do, somethin' in me just prances to pitch in and help, and the first thing I know I've sot my brocm to work brushin' away the dirt in front of the nice new change. And what I want to know is this: If the world can work this all out by itself, why was I born with two arms to me? And what's folks for?"

THE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOR

By Mrs. Florence Kelley

The federal government has recently published two illuminating little volumes, one on Juvenile Delinquency and its Relation to Employment, and the other on Conditions under which Children leave School. These are Volumes 7 and 8 respectively of the 19 which constitute Senate Document 645 of the Sixty-first Congress, Second Session. The whole report is on the Condition of Women and Child Wage Earners in the United States and is prepared by Charles P. Neill, U. S. Commissioner of Labor.

Everone interested in votes for women should own and study these volumes. They are arsenals full of ammunition. The Congress unfortunately limited the edition to 2,000 copies, and some effort is required to obtain them. They are distributed by Senators and Members of Congress. These 19 volumes show that we have in our Republic, in spite of the nationwide agitation during the past twelve years, thousands of children working by day and by night, thousands of boys and girls exposed to the utmost moral danger, all of them deprived of education which is their right.

The Story is Always the Same In every honest American official publication dealing with child labor, the story is the same. The schools are insufficient or they do not fit the meeds of the children, or the compulsory, attendance requirements are not carried out; the child labor law is not efficiently enforced by local offcials; it does not cover all the industries in the community, or its pro-

visions are vague and unenforceable. In some States, such as Montana, where there is no temptation to employ in the messenger service as newsboys, the law, passed with little agitation or opposition, is comprehensive, sweeping and drastic, providing that a child shall not be employed under the age of 16 years.

In States, too, in which women have for a generation or more made a practice of availing themselves of the right to petition, the beginnings of a children's code are increasingly effective. Where, however, in industrially developed States, women have not yet learned to use the method of persuasion and petition, as in the Carolinas, Georgia and Florida, the children pay the penalty of this shirking by their natural protectors and advocates, and there is neither any compulsory education whatsoever, nor any child labor legislation worth the name.

South Carolina's Experience In South Carolina, for example, one of the States in which the cotton mills most greedily claim the children, a few men, representing chiefly the National Child Labor Committee, sustained for several years the effort to free the children from work in the mills at any ase, however youns, and throughout the nisht, whenever it pleased the employers to have the mills running at night.

In the second decade of the 20th century, in this year 1911, South Carolina did, at last, establish 12 years as the age limit below which no girl or boy can legally work in a cotton mill. The cruel provision was abolished under which, up to July 1, 1911, a sgirl of six years legally worked in a eotton mill, because her father had deserted his family, though the desertion was no more serious than his living in the neighboring village, beside the nearest railway station, in constant communication with his family. When, however, this amendment had been made, and the men of South Carolina had established for the native white children of their State a standard two years lower than that which Massachusetts, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and a score of other States set for the protection of their immigrant children, the fruits of all this effort were blighted by a stroke of the pen of Governor Blease, who vetoed the appropriation for factory inspection.

A child labor law without inspection is a sham, confusing to the employees and demoralizing to the employers. No such veto as this of Governor Blease of South Carolina has been resistered by the governor of a State in which women steadily avail themselves of their right to petition and criticise intelligently the actions of legislators and administrative offcers. Least of all could such a veto be registered in a State in which the governor would have to appeal, at the next election, to the mothers and teachers for their votes for his reelection.

Bad Conditions in New York In New York State, after years of effort, we have at last, fairly well enforced, the five o'clock closing hour for children in factories and mills, and the seven o'clock closing hour, and nine hours working day for children employed in stores. This applies to children between 14 and 16 years of age, and is the result of the patient joint efforts of men and women for many years.

In the light of the new federal report, however, this, too, is seen to be sadly insufficient, for according to the report the work of errand boys is morally the most dangerous of all occupations. The children, without constant supervision, by the very nature of their work, yield to the temptation to steal, and their characteristic delinquency is larceny. Yet in New York our legislators perversely put a premium upon this highly undesirable occupation by allowing retail merchants to employ children at any time between 7 a. m. and 7 p. m., a period of 12 hours, while the working day of children in factories and workshops is wisely limited to the nine hours period between 8 a. m. and 5 p. m., with an hour for luncheon. A second premium is placed upon the employment of boys in this occupation by letting merchants keep them at work nine hours in the day and fifty-four hours in the week, in contrast to the shorter working hours enforced against manufacturers.

In the light of this new federal report, the employment of boys in this work must obviously be discouraged. at least, before the sixteenth birthday. Nothing discourases the employment of children so effectively as shortening their working day, and the lons. slow, country-wide effort for the eight hours day for all working children will be sreatly strengthened by the new supply of official data.

When we try to prevent children from working by shortening their working day and by raising the age at which they may begin to work, we can succeed only in proportion as we keep them in schools which meet their needs and promise them a future reward in the form of increased effclency.

Magistrates Encourage Law-Breaking Half-time school attendance seems to an eager boy or girl a most unconvincing substitute for the chance to earn a little money, and half-time gives rise to illegal work and truancy as naturally as truancy to delinquency and crime. When boys demoralized by half-time school attendance and much consequent street life, are found at work as truants peddling without licenses or selling papers without wearing badsges, or blacking boots below the legal age, they are by some magistrates encouraged in their law breaking. It is a common complaint in the poorer districts that some magistrates, both the elected and the appointed ones, fine widows or take their children away and send them to institutions when the children are charged with these offences. Voting fathers, on the other hand, are said to be treated by the same masgistrates with conspicuous leniency, though their children are suilty of the same offences. Such experiences are confusing te the moral sense of everyone concerned.

child-Labor Law Nullified by the Courts It is, however, not merely by its failure to provide schools and teachers, and by the injustice of the masgistrates, that the exclusively man-made government of New York contributes to maintain the evils of child labor. Iin the decision of the Court of Appeals (the highest court in the State, an elective court), in the Jacobs case, it was held to be contrary to the constitution of the United States to enact a law forbidding manufacture in tenement houses. In consequence of that anti-social judicial decision, thousands of dwellings have been, for nearly a quarter of a century, invaded by manufacture. In them children work whenever they are out of schoel. Many little children work in the tenements before they are old enough to go to school. Manufacturers who, under the child labor law, could not employ children in factories or workshops, are enabled, by that decision of an elective court, to send work into the child's home and employ it there, while only the name of the mother, father or adult brother or sister appears upon the payrol. In some trades, such as willowing feathers and making flowers, the older workers cannot get work unless there are cheap children available for home-

di dr kn an B ter sh by ex su ris ma ed the its Bu

Women have no more weight with the State judiciary in New York than with the city school authorities. The judges are elected by men, for very long terms, and are personally unknown, even by name, to most of the otherwise intelligent women in the State. They are, of course, utterly beyond the reach of petition and persuasion.

--- page 3 ---
Of Course You've Tried Educator Wafers-buttered! Didn't you find them far more convenient to serve than bread—to say nothing of flavor—as satisfying as it is unique. So now know how isi Wheat Wafers—one of many varicties of They originated by my father, Dr. wr was to ie to the world a cracker containing all the nourishment that Natre put

I penor cach day's bake. Educator ers e

Children in the Canneries

Children employed in the canneries were, in 1905, deprived of the intended protection of the child labor law by a stroke of the pen of former Attorney General of the State of New York, Julius Mayer, who held that sheds are not parts of canneries, and do not, therefore, come under the law. The long, slow, tedious campaign of petition and persuasion has since been going on in the Legislature to introduce the word “sheds" into the State labor law. No one can foretell when the campaign will be successful, but it will certainly not end during the present year. Meanwhile, children five years old may legally be kept shelling peas or snipping beans from five in the morning until midnight, it they can be made to keep their eyes open. An investigator reports finding a tiny child asleep on the shed floor at midnight with its hands full of the beans on which it had been working when it fell asleep.

Attorneys General are elected. Mothers and women teachers have no more voice in electing them than in electing judges of the State Court of Appeals, or members of the New York City Board of Education (who are appointed by the Mayor). Need of Children's Bureau

The new federal report on Conditions of Work of Women and Children gives a foretaste of the kind of knowledge that we shall get, current and up-to-date, when the Children's Bureau in the Department of the Interior is established. From it we shall learn, year by year, and place by place, and industry by industry, exactly how our children work and suffer and are robbed of their birthright. Then every Legislature can make laws in the light of full knowledge of the facts in States in which the industries compete with those in its own State.

But when shall we get the Children's Bureau? The campaign of persuasion and petition is already seven years o1d. The bill to create the Bureau was introduced in 1904. In that year John Jenkins of Wisconsin, Chairman of the Committee on the Judiciary, is said by his colleagues to have pounded the table in the committee room as he asked, “What has the Congress of the United States to do with women and children, anyhow?" Fortunately, he has been returned to private life. But the mothers and teachers of the nation have no more weight with the Consress (excopt those of the six great States which have epfranchised women), than have the women of New York City with the Board of Education, or the magistrates, or the women of New

ith an he ery unthe the rly er-

THE WO JOURNAL, FEBRUARY 24, 1912 York State with the Attorney General frage the vote in the electoral college she brought them o and the Court of Appeals, or the wo- would be increased by 27 votes, name- thinkins, and for the men of South Carolina with the Les- ly, Kansas, 10; Wisconsin, 12, and history of Puget So islature and Governor Blease. Oresgon, 5, or a total of 64 votes in the a really important

We make some gains for the children by the method of petition and persuasion. We must continue to use it for the sake of the children, and, also, for the education which such work affords to those who engage in it. But child labor can be abolished only when the women of every State are given equal authority with men in the political, social and industrial life of this Republic.

WHAT TO DO AND WHAT OTHERS ARE DOING

A sgood suffragist from Wisconsin writes: “I sold sample copies of The Journal on the Chicago & Northwestern train last week and I shall try it again when traveling. They sell easily. Real missionary work, this nmew means of propaganda." There are certainly possibilities of Journal sales on the trains, especially when passengers are waiting for their trains to pull out on long journeys and they begin to realize that they will need something to read. Why not sive them something new, the paper that tells all about the great Votes for Women movement which is stirring the country and the world? This is an excellent opportunity for the enterprising.

The Woman's Journal is on sale in Boston at the news stand of Mrs. Jane Stowell, Lawrence Building, corner West and Tremont streets; at the smallware store of Mrs. M. A. Hudson, Huntington avenue and Norway street. The Journal is on sale from 2 to 4 Saturday afternoons on the corner of Tremont and Bromfield streets, Tremont and Park streets, Tremont and West streets, Tremont and Winstreets, Tremont and Temple place.

Notify The Journal office as to where The Woman's Journal can be purchased in your town or city. Suffragists need to know in order to patronize those stands for extra copies when they want them. We plan to give a small free advertisement to every news stand and store that keeps The Journal for sale. One New York suffragist likes The Woman's Journal so well that she has just ordered ten yearly subscriptions for herself. Many people send The Journal to ten friends, but few are so enthusiastic over The Journal that they themselves use ten copies per week.

A Journal subscriber responds to our call for volunteers to sell The Journal. She has been ordered South for her health, but does not intend to give up work for The Journal. She has found a way. She will use Woman's Journal subscription blanks in her personal letters to friends and acquaintances and expects to get a large number of subscribers for us in this way. “Where there's a will there's a way." Have the will and “the divinity which shapes our ends" will find the way!

Do not forget to use The Woman's Journal subscription blanks in your letters. Thousands of people do not know The Journal and are waiting to know the name and address and price. The proof that this is effective work is the number of subscription blanks that come in each week with a check or money order attached. Those who cannot sell papers, take subscriptions, make speeches or get up plays can surely do this. Subscription blanks are furnished free on application to The Journal office.

MAY TURN THE SCALE (Concluded from Page 57)

convention; that they are all bunched in one section of the country, and therefore have a common interest, and are likely to be controlled by their views of that interest. These States and the number of votes to which they are entitled are: “California, 13; Colorado, 6; Idaho, 4; Utah, 4; Washington, 7; Wyomins,. 3. in Other States

“The Legislatures of Kansas and Wisconsin have passed acts submit ting the question to the voters, and in Oregon the necessary petition has been filed for a vote on the subject in that State. 1f these three States should vote in favor of woman suf-

frage the vote in the electoral college would be increased by 27 votes, namely, Kansas, 10; Wisconsin, 12, and Oreson, 5, or a total of 64 votes in the college of 531 electors. “A striking historical fact in this connection is that in six presidential elections the Presidents were elected by a smaller number of votes than these States control, and in one instance a Vice-President failed to receive a majority of the votes of the electoral college, and was elected by the Senate.

“In 1793 John Adams defeated Thomas Jefferson by two votes. “In 1800 Thomas Jefferson and Aaron Burr each received 172 votes. The choice then devolved upon the House of Representatives, where Jeffersen recived the votes of ten States, Burr four, and two voted blanks.

Npain the riouse Slocts “In 1824 none of the candidates for President received enough electoral votes to elect, and the choice again devolved upon the House of Representatives, when John Quincy Adams was chosen by the votes of thirteen States; Andrew Jacksen received the votes of seven States, and W. H. Crawford the votes of four States.

“In 1836 no candidate for Vice-President received a majority of the votes of the electoral college, the election devolving upon the Senate, which elected R. M. Johnson by a vote of 33 to 16, his opponent being Francis Gayner. As the Vice-President would succeed the President in the event of the President's death or impeachment, the election was potentially as significant in respect to the importance of a few electoral votes as an election for a President directly.

“In 1840 Zachary Taylor defeated Lewis Cass by just 36 votes. “In 1876 Rutherferd B. Hayes defeated Samuel J. Tilden by one vote. “In 1884 Grover Cleveland defeated James G. Blaine by just 37 votes.'— Washington Star. WASHINGTON WOMEN SERVE ON THE JURY (Concluded from Page 57)

days $250, the amount some of the women received in a long session of court, was quite a windfall. One woman will tell you that she never looks out upon her fruit trees, bought and planted in the early '80s, but she thinks of the interesting questions she was called upon to decide in the jury box.

In Territorial days an English sea captain from Hawail was accused of holding a Kanaka woman in slavery. He, was indicted and brought to trial in Seattle. He had never heard of women serving as jurors, but he looked into their faces and said he would trust his case to them. They found him not guilty. Women in Washington are exempt from jury duty at present by merely asserting their desire to be excused, but all over the State women are serving cheerfully and with ability. Women bailiffs are being introduced, as in Territorial days.

One innovation that women jurors have made will be appreciated by the public at large. In a case being tried in one of the northern counties, the wrangling of the opposing attorneys became so abusive that the women jurors appealed to the judge to stop it—and he did. It is noticeable, too, that the brow-beating of witnesses is somewhat modified, counsel fearing to offend woman jurors.

Soon after the ballot was sranted in November, 1910, a police court jury of six prominent suffragists was empaneled to try a woman on a charge of using gas that was not registered by meter. On the showing of facts, the woman was acquitted, and she has since obtained substantial damages from the gas company as the result of her arrest.

In cases involving prominent persons, there has been no hesitancy in accepting women on the jury. In one notable case in Bellingham an attempt was made to convict a fish-trap company of violation of the law in the use of their traps. This is a serious offense, tending to destroy the fish industry, but though many actions have been brought through many years, no convictions have been made. Recently a mixed jury disagreed on the first ballet, most of the men votins for acquittal. But there was a woman on that jury, who began to argue the case, and after seven hours

she brought them over to her way of thinking, and for the first time in the history of Puget Sound fish industry a really important conviction was secured. So jubllant is Whatcom County that it is proposed to run this woman juror for the Legislature.

Recently a jury of women in California tried an editor on a charge of publishing profane and obscene campaigsn epithets. Thirty-six women were summoned for examination as to their qualifications for sitting in the panel. The editor was acquitted on the charge of printing obscenity. The women found that what he had published was simple profanity, adding that it would be better if such epithets were read in the paper rather than heard as one passed the doors of saloons.

The ruling of the Attorney-General of California that women are ineligible for jury service in that State is unfortunate. No right that the ballot brings to woman is so precious as the right to sit upon the jury. It is in the court room that property rights and personal rights, that life itself and destiny is decided. The “omnibus bill,' sweeping away all civil disabillties of California women, which has just passed the House by a unanimous vote, should become a law. The State needs women jurors, and women need to protect their rights by serving.— The Western Woman Voter.

VOTES FOR WOMEN SHOULD BE GRANTED (Concluded from Page 57)

States have granted suffrage to women on some subjects, and six have granted complete suffrage. It is no wonder that English women, even though they have voting power on practically everything except for members of Parliament, still remain unsatisfied, nay, are more discontented than ever before. It is no wonder that American women, who have been given a partial franchise, also want the logical process completed. They have been given rights in larger and larger measure; they have been permitted a more public sphere of ordimary activity; economic pressure has turned millions of them into breadwinners; and the social status of all of them has been so altered that the last step must now be taken or all previous steps are meaningless. They have been educated up to the very point when the last prize is just before them, and it must not be denied. They have been permitted to attain a state of self-competency, and the one mark of self-competency—the badge of sovereignty, the highest gov-

HUMAN MACHINES" GIVE HOPE

vhat May Be Expected When Electricity, Gas, Steam, Education and Brains and the Woman Heart Combine for Woman and the Home

Have you noticed that in hard labor men and women are being supplanted by marvelous machines that are so wenderfully made that they seem nearly human? Have you watched the vacuum cleaner take up “the dust of ages,' making housecleaning like child's play? Have you watched the auto truck and the electric car move off with their great burdens with the ease of a boy on skates? Have you visited the plant of your daily paper and seen the magic work of the linotype, the great printing presses and the folding machines?

If you have not, you owe it to yourself and your time to do so, especially if you know anything of the drudgery and monotony of housework. Consider the wonders of your generation and consider what may be expected when electricity and gas and steam and brains and education and the woman heart combine for woman and the home as they have already combined for business and industry. Do you not have times of sreat rejoicing over the encouraging things that are on the horizen and that will come quicker if we get the vote? Out in California they are talking about municipal newspapers, municipal baths, municipal laundries. Does that mean nothing to you?

It is the kind of faith, and faith justified, that takes some of us out to the street corners on Saturday afternoons to sell The Woman's Journal. We believe these things are matters of education; we believe The Journal is a great educational medium on the mer-

t Roosevelt's on this question is simply evasive. The proposal for a plebiscite of women to decide in any State whether that State should provide for their complete enfranchisement is based upon no fundamental idea of suffrage. It is not even a fundamental question to ask whether they would use the ballot if they had it. No set of people, either in America or in Europe, on the eve of possible enfranchisement, was ever required to meet such tests. Rights have always been extended on high grounds of public justice and morality, and in recegnition of personality. Suffragists do not fear such tests; but the tests, if applied, would not be decisive. The case does not rest finally on the wishes of the set of people to be benefitted, or upon the use they will make of the privilege. It rests finally upon the moral obligation of a free jtate to recognize a person as a person. The statement of the British statesman applies with much gerater force to the women of today than it did to any class ever before enfranchised—"A free government and a large number of people excluded from its piivileges cannot exist together." Dr. Denney was several times interrupted by applause.

WOMEN TO SERVE AS HOUSEHOLD ASSESSORS

Seven Are Appointed to Act in Spokane, Wash., with Forty-two Men

Glen B. Creighton, assessor of Spokane County, has appointed seven women to handle household assessment in Spokane this spring. They will begin work early in March at $90 a month, the same as is paid to men. Forty-two men have been appointed for that city. It is said that a number of women will be named deputy assessors for the 18 incorporated towns in the county.

Mr. Creighton says his appointees are women of good business ability, and he predicts they will do the work in a satisfactory way. “If they do as well as we expect," he added, “I see no reason why they should not have equal chances with men in this kind of work."

Rev. Anna H. Shaw writes: “I am happy to say that I have returned to New York with renewed strength and vigor. My three weeks' rest in Florida has absolutely made a new woman of me, and I am ready for a hard spring campaign."

its of the woman's point of view in politics. We, therefore, go forth to the places where people throng; we take them the message, “Votes for Women"; we set them thinking about it, talking about it, asking about it, reading about it. As the thousands so by and look cheerful,—most of them grin or laugh outright and repeat the words, “Votes for Women," willy nilly—a little song sings itself in my heart, the sweetest song in the Enslish language. Long ago I set it to my own music. It begins like this

“They are waking, waking, wakins, In the East and in the West; They are throwing wide their windows to the sun. And they see the dawn is breaking And they quiver with unrest; For they know their work is waiting to be done. “They are waking in the city, They are waking on the farm; They are waking in the boudoir and the mill, And their hearts are full of pity As they sound the wide alarm For the sleepers who in darkness slumber still."

It is faith in womanhood and a sons in the heart that make it easy to sell The Journal in the street in all weather. And selling papers by conviction engenders faith. Perhaps it is the air one breathes, perhaps it is the sense of leisure one feels, or perhaps it is simply the inspiration one gets from so many people hurryins by while one waits. At any rate the faith comes and the song sinss itself. miss 141 in

59

--- page 4 ---
60

THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL

FFoNDD B 3 LUCY STONE and HENRY B. BLACKWELIL A Weekly Newspaper Devoted to Winning Equal Rights and especially to Winning Equal Suffrage for Women. Editor MISS ALICE STONE BLACKWELL 3 MONADNOCK STREET, DORCHESTER, MASS Conuibuting Editors MISS MARY JOHNSTON MRS. IDA H. HARPER MISS ELLIS MEREDITH REV. CAROLINE BARTLETT CRANE MRS. MABEL CRAFT DEERING Office - 585 Boylston Street, Boston, Mass. Telephone, Back Bay 4717 NEW YORK office: Nationsl Suffrage Headquarters, 505 Fifth Ave. NATIONAL AMERICAN WOMAN SUFFRAGE 505 Fifth Avenue, New York City. ANNA HOWARD SHAW, President, Moylan, Pa. JANE ADDAMS, 1st Vice-President, Hull House, Chicago, Ills. SOPHONISBA P. BRECKINRIDGE, 2nd Vice-President, Green iall, University of Chicago, Ills. MARY WARE DENNETT, Corresponding Secretary. 505 Fifth Avenue, New York. SUSAN W. FITZGERALD, Recording Secretary, 585 Boyliston Street, Boston, Mass. JESSIE ASHLEY, Treasurer, 505 Fifth Avenue, New York. HARRIET BURTON LAIDLAW, 2nd Auditor, 6 East 66th Street, New York. ALICE STONE BLACKWELL, Editor of “The Woman's Journal," Monadnock Street. Dorchester., Mass. SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 912 ,¢éMaB;Br&rlolt Eered at the post-office, Boston, Massachusens, as second class manter SUBSCRIPTION One Year . . . . $1.00 Dote Six Months .50 Four Months on Trial. . Single Copies . . .05 Canadian or Foreign: One Year . . 1.50 On sale at Brentano's, New York City; also on news-stands in New York, Boston and elsewhere. RECEIPT of payment must not be expected to show on address label w weeks from date received. Instructions for RENEWAL. DISCONTINUANCE or CHANGE OF ADDRESS should be sent two eore the date they are to go into effect. Both old and new addresses must always be given. r trr u ees oud be addressed to the office of The Woman's Jourm55 Boylston Street, Boston, Mass. Registered letters o express company's money orders may be sent at our risk. Money sent e e iee will be at the risk of the sender. Checks and drafts and post-office orders should be made payable to The Woman's Journal. Advertising rates will be sent upon application to advertising manager. New York Advertising Representative, M. D. Bryant & Co., Inc. 200 Fifrth Avenue, New York City.

SELMA LAGERLOF ON SUFFRAGE

Mrs. Velma Swanston Howard has done a real service to the English-speaking public in translating from the Swedish Selma Lagerlor's address before the International Woman Suffrage Consress at Stockholm, which is published in The World's Work for February. An American delegate to Stockholm told in The Woman's Journal of the deep impression made by this beautiful address, and how strange, almost uncanny, it was to hear, amid a breathless silence, a sad voice speaking in an unknown tongue to a vast audience, who listened, men and women alike, with the tears running down their faces. All of us longed to know what she had said. We are now enabled to read the main part of her plea.

The beloved Swedish authoress says that women, for countless generations, have devoted their lives to making sood homes; this has been their sreat contribution to the world. Meanwhile men have built up the State, and have had the management of almost all the world's work outside the home. She continues “The majority of homes are not perfect, and many are bad. But the good and happy homes do exist; we have seen them; we have lived in them. Women can create them in poverty and in affluence, in lowliness and in refinement. They are to be found in kings' castles and in cotters' huts.

“Now, as to the States—these our sreater homes, so diffcult to build, constructed with so much effort, watered by so much blood and so many tears, builded by the help of the strongest characters, the boldest minds—is there or has there ever been one that has satisfied all its members? Are they not always in the midst of continuous reform work? Does one not desire even today to reform and reconstruct them from the bottom up? Do they not present constant reasons for discontent and bitterness? “Where is the state in which there are no unprotected children? wherein no budding genius is crushed, but where all its young are lovingly nurtured?

“Where is the state that sgives to all its aged poor the protection and respect due those who are nearing the end of this life? Where is the state that punishes offenders only with the idea of correction and development? Where is the state that utilizes every talent, that gives, and in which the unfortunate receives, as much thoughtful consideration as do the most favored? “Where is the state that does not embody alien peoples it cannot care for? Where is the state that gives to all the opportunity of living their own lives, so long as they do not disturb the harmony of the whole? Where is the state wherein none of its members may go to waste in idleness, drunkenness, and in shameless living?

“Perhaps you will answer that this is not the business of the state. It stands for law and order. But if such is the case, why does it meddle with all these other matters? It does so because it knows that the state which does not create happiness cannot prosper. It is essential to its welfare to be beloved by high and low. The state must be a promoter of comfort, security, education, culture, and ennobling; for to it mankind must look for the realization of their hopes. “I have been bold enough to state that the home is woman's creation. But I did not say that she alone created it. Fortunately for her and for all of us, she has ever had the man with her. Master and mistress have sat side by side. Had the woman toiled alone she could not have solved the problem. The home would not have been in existence, either as a dream or as a reality.

Nothing has impelled man to take woman with him into the fow d ————Hall of Justice, into the Civil Service Department, into the the eff House of Commerce. He has forged his way alone. “Think how long he alone performed the duties of physician be obl He still prepares his own meals at the barracks; he coaches at want t the boys' school. He has taken upon himself the hardest tasks,vacu and he has mot been araid o wo o “But has he bucceeded? Witness the hatred between the to a b classes; witness the stiflied cries from beneath, all the threats and revolutions. Witness the complaints of the unemployed; witness emigration! Does all this signify that he has succeeded, or that he ever can succeed? M

“Alas, we women are not perfect beings! You men are no more perfect than we are. How are we to attain that which is great and good unless we help each other?

“We do not think that the work can be accomplished at once, but we do belleve that it would be folly to reject our help. “We believe that the winds of God are bearing us onward, that our little masterwork, the home, was our creation with the help of man. The great masterwork, the state, shall be perfected by man when in all seriousness he takes woman as his helper." Selma Lagerlof thinks that in the so-called “woman's invasion" into man's traditional sphere, there is something fundamental and irresistible, like the impulse that leads to the shifting of populations, and makes it impossible for governments to stop emigration so long as there is unbroken land awaiting cultivation anywhere in the world. She says to the women:

“You must enter all fields; you must be on hand everywhere, if the state is ever to be beloved like the home. Be certain that your services, now so despised, shall soon be sought after. They will be in such demand that you will hardly be able to meet the wants. Be assured that we shall soon be in evidence everywhere —in uninhabitated regions and in cities, with many new occupations not yet known to us, but all working toward the One Good." A. S. B.

RIGHTS AND DUTIES

Dr. Lyman Abbott has come out with another attack on votes for women. He says that suffrage is not a right but a duty, and that he does not believe in it “because I do not believe that the duties of men and women are the same." Does he not believe that it is the duty of women as well as of men to tell the truth? To pay their taxes? To observe the laws? To practice all the Christian virtues? Of course he does believe that the duties of men and women are the same in regard to a hundred things. Whether they are the same in regard to the one hundred and first is a question to be decided on its merits, and not to be dismissed by a dogmatic assertion that their duties are always and necessarily different.

Dr. Abbott says that the main business of government is to protect persons and property, and that “hitherto women have been exempt from the duty of protecting persons and property." Have they? All the police of the country are hired with tax money which has been paid by women as well as by men. All the cost of armies, courts and prisons is defrayed from taxes, either direct or indirect, levied upon the whole community, women as well as men. Women contribute to the protection of persons and property in exactly the same way that the majority of men do,—that is, they help to pay for it; and the payment is compulsory.

They also protect persons and property in many other ways. Are not children persons? The duty of caring for and protecting children generally devolves upon women, and is, in fact, their special work. It is also generally recognized as women's duty to protect their husbands in the home from discomfort, dirt, draughts, disease, impure food, and bad moral influences. In all these duties women are unduly handicapped if they have no voice in making the laws. The mere difficulty of keeping the house clean is enormously increased if the streets are not well cleaned, so that the children continually track dirt into the home. The duty of protecting the family from impure food is made tenfold more difficult, sometimes impossible, if pure food laws are not passed and enforced. “Go home and cook your husband's dinner," said a New York alderman to Mrs. Sophia Lobingier when she came with other women to ask for an ordinance to forbid the keeping of meat in cold storage beyond a certain length of time. But however carefully she might cook it, the meat might make her husband ill if it had been kept in cold storage too long.

Not only are women held responsible for protecting the health and lives of their own husbands and their own children, but it is now recognized that they have a duty toward protecting the children of the whole country and toward protecting the public health. Consistent anti-suffragists still deny this. In the late debate in the U. S. Senate over the establishment of a Children's Bureau, Senator Bailey of Texas scoffed at the women who had asked for the measure. He was reported as saying that the more a woman knew about the things she ought to know about, the less she would know about what went on in Congress. But consistent anti-suffragists are few. Dr. Abbott and his like assume that it is women's duty not only to study political questions and form a correct opinion, but to exert themselves to educate the public and the lawmakers. They call upon women to circulate petitions, and to write letters to Congressmen, and to attend hearings in behalf of pure food, peace and arbitration, clean streets, and a thousand other subjects which are dealt with by law. Any woman who heeds all these appeals—really worthy appeals, too—has to give more time to it in a month than she would have to give to all her political duties in a year, if women had the ballot. Dr. Abbott does not tell her that she has no duty in the matter because the majority of women have not yet been aroused to any active interest in promoting pure food legislation, or peace and arbitration treaties, or any other public improvement.

Where the question of duty comes in, the question of numbers ceases to be relevant. There are too many instances in which the majority of people are indifferent to their duty, to make it safe for any minister of religion to say that no womar ought to do a thing until the majority of women are convinced that it is their duty to do it. An inclination to shirk duty is one of the commonest characteristics of the human race, both male and female. A writer in the Baltimore Sun lately said that he could not attach much weight to the question whether the majority of women wanted to vote. The majority of healthy male children did not want to be washed, he said, yet they ought to be, and the majority of men did not want to work, yet idleness was bad for them. Dr. Abbott and his like hold the mother responsible for the

morals of her son, even if there is a sambling-house within a few doors of her home and a brothel on the opposite corner. In the effort to get rid of such things, there is no more reason why an intelligent and progressive mother who wants to vote should be obliged to wait until all the indifferent and ignorant mothers want to vote than there is why a housekeeper wishing to adopt a vacuum cleaner should be forbidden to do so until the majority of housekeepers have decided that they prefer a vacuum cleaner to a broom. A. S. B.

SUF

SUF

The Marke week W. M fair. and F Miss Florid pineap as did and pr atoate a

TO STOP WHITE SLAVE TRADE Mr. James Bronson Reynolds writes to the editor of The Voman's Journal:

“You doubtless know of the so-called Mann and Bennet laws passed by the National Congress two years ago. The former aims to authorize the prosecution of interstate traffic in women; the latter, the importation of women from foreign countries for immoral purposes. Under these two laws the Bureau of Investigation of the Department of Justice undertook important prosecutions during the first six months of this year. Its work, I believe, was excellent. The Attorney General himself informed me that he took a personal interest in these prosecutions, and counselled the methods and means to be employed. At the end of these six months the prosecutions decreased because the appropriation had been exhausted. The present National Budget calls for but $25,000.

The tures but ne from t tribute brough farm State Mills. mother charge creatur that th killed joiced him an to a go

“Several of us are combining to secure, if possible, an appropriation of $250,000 for the coming year. Will you not sive your co-operation and aid in arousing the woman's organizations of the country to address the Congress on this matter? The two laws referred to provide the means for a splendid attack upon this most awful form of slavery, which kills the soul while leaving the body alive. “If we can establish a standard of enforcement for two or three years, we can make a most important step of progress in the reduction of commercialized vice. My experience as Secretary to the Mayor of New York opened my eyes to the extent of the interstate traffic, and I learned that the traffc followed interstate lines because they proved by experience to be the lines of least resistance. My immigration experience while in Washington revealed to me the extent of the importation of women into this country for immoral purposes.”

A WA

Suffrag Forel bersh Des

Mr. Reynolds gives the following list of men who should be written to upon this subject: The President. The Attorney General. Hon. Henry Cabot Lodge, Chairman of the Committee on Immigration of the Senate. Hon. John L. Burnett, Chairman of the Committee on Immigration of the House. Hon. Francis E. Warren, Chairman of the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate. Hon. John J. Fitzgerald, Chairman of the Committee on Appropriations of the House. Hon. Oscar W. Underwood, Chairman of the Committee on Ways and Means of the House. Hon. James E. Mann, the Republican minority leader of the House. The address of all these gentlemen is Washington, D. C. Mr. Reynolds says:

Mrs. of the Club, w

The ing int enthusi Heretof bers of ered at session We are the pu nomina tatives equal s ty affil tive wo

“Of particular importance are the President, the Attorney General, and the Chairmen of the Appropriations Committees in the Senate and in the House. Any other Congressmen may be addressed and asked to appeal to their party friends on the Appropriations Committees. Whatever is done must be done within the next three weeks."

The Clubs cause. is mow Meeting city. fluentia their he is alwa and e speaker ple of t for the ment is

The Woman's Journal is glad to add its most earnest appeal to that of Mr. Reynolds. In view of the $75,000,000 lately voted by Congress to swell our already bloated pension fund, the $250,000 asked for is very modest. Incidentally, there will seem to many women to be a strong argument for equal suffrage in the fact that so txifling a sum as $25,000 has been mamed for this purpose, and that these important prosecutions have been allowed to lapse for want of an appropriation. Write at once; get your husbands and brothers to write; and get every organization to which you belong to pass a resolution and send it to Washington. A. S. B.

1he t Coggshe Des Mo many w in a pas workers and the Coggsha with us suffragis loss of effort

A FLY IN AMBER

It is easy, in most cases, to have charity for the Antis, and to recognize that the majority of them are well meanins, though misguided. But one's gorge rises against the action of that Dean of Women at Rochester University who chose the week of Miss Anthony's birthday to sather the women students together and address them on “Why I Am an Anti-Suffragist."

The League nent He the cam their of ing the across t the way

In Byron's tragedy of “Marino Faliero," a famous Doge of Venice, whose prowess in war has repeatedly saved the Republic, yields in his later life, under the smart of a salling personal wrons, to the temptation to join in a plot for the overthrow of the government. He is found out, and there is a sreat scene in which his wife pleads his cause before the council. A member of the council says: “He is a traitor, and betrayed the state."

All th space to to the n against

“And, but for him, there now had been no state To save or to destroy; and you, who sit There to pronounce the death of your deliverer, Would now be sroaning at a Moslem oar, Or digging in the Hunnish mines in fetters."

PROF.

But for the Anthony sisters there would now be no women at Rochester University, and no Dean of Women. It was Mary Anthony who made up the sum required to secure the admission of girls to the University, when it seemed impossible otherwise to complete the fund in time. That Dean may be a woman of good intentions. If so, she is unfortunate. But for this affair, her memory after her death would have passed into harmiless oblivion, with that of hundreds of other ordinary deans, male and female. But now she will so down in history as a type of marrow-mindedness and ingratitude, preserved like a fiy in amber, through this one ill-judged and singularly inappropriate action. A 8np

Prof. last We ton, his Poetry a with a Early Wednesd ldylls of will be g the Passi of Grief theme fo “The Car the fifth. a lecture Tennyson

Suppose woman, thoush equal, to differ essontially in her intellect from man,—is that any sround for disfranchising her? Shall the Fultons say to the Raphaels, “Because you cannot make steam-engines, therefore you shall not vote"?—Wendell Phillips.

--- page 5 ---
SUFFRAGE FAIR AND COUNTY MARKE

New York Suffragists Have a Good Time and Make Money

New York Suffragists Have a Good Time and Make Money

The Suffrase Bazar and County Market, held in New York City last week under the chairmanship of Mrs. W. M. Ivins, proved a delightful afrair. Feb. 14 was Anna H. Shaw day and Feb. 15 Susan B. Anthony day. Miss Shaw had brought back from Florida a quantity of oranges and pineapples, which found a ready sale, as did the array of delicious jellies and preserves contributed by the upstate suffragists.

The attractive and interesting features were too nmumerous to mention, but nothing sot so much attention from the press as the little pig contributed by Mrs. Ruth Litt, and brought in a bag from Mrs. Litt's farm on Long Island by the vallant State Pesident, Miss Harriet May Mills. Before the end of the Fair the motherly hearts of the women in charge had so warmed to the little creature in his pen by the window that they hated to think of his beins xilled in his babyhood, and were rejoiced when Herbert Carpenter bought him and carried him off to be raised to a good old age.

A WARM CAMPAIGN STARTED IN I

Suffragists Are Taking Time By the Forelock—Great Campaign for Membership—Meetings Held All Over Des Moines Mrs. Frank S. Shankland, president of the Des Moines Political Equality Club, writes:

The suffragists of Iowa are entering into the campaign with a zeal and enthusiasm never before displayed. Heretcofore we have waited until members of the General Assembly sathered at the State House in regular session before presenting our cause. We are now organizing the State for the purpose of bringing about the nomination and election of Representatives and Senators favorable to equal suffrage, regardless of their party amliation. We expect to do effective work before the primaries.

The Men's League and the Suffrage Clubs are co-operating to further the cause. A campaign for new members is now on in and near Des Moines. Meetings are being held all over the city. Many of the best and most influential families are throwing open their homes for these meetings. There is always a program of good music, and entertaining and convincing speakers make short addresses. People of the neighborhood are invited in for the evening, and suffrage sentiment is thus created.

The death of our beloved Mary J. Coggshall, the pioneer suffragist in Des Moines, has resulted in arousing many who were heretofore suffragists in a passive degree, to be enthusiastic workers. Victory will soon be ours, and the one sad thought is that Mrs. Coggshall was not spared to rejoice with us when that time comes. Every suffragist in the State feels 'that the loss of Mrs. Coggshall calls for greater effort.

The Suffrage Clubs and the Men's League of the State maintain permanment Headquarters in Des Moines, and the campaign is being directed from their offices. A large streamer bearing the slogan of suffragists extends across the principal street, and points the way to the Headquarters. All the daily papers devote much space to the cause and are favorable to the movement. All the arguments against suffrage have been exploded. PROF. GRIGGS'S LECTURES

en ary ion ise of air, ess ale of er., on.

Prof. Edward Howard Griggs began last Wednesday, in Jordan Hall, Boston, his course of six lectures on “The Poetry and Philosophy of Tennyson, with a discourse on “The Life and Barly Work of Tennyson." Next Wednesday he will discuss “The 1dylls of the King." The third lecture will be given to “The Holy Grail and the Passing of Arthur." “The Period of Grief and Strugsle" is the special theme for the fourth lecture, and “The Cantos of Faith and Love" for the fifth. The course will close with lecture upon “The Expression of Tennyson's Spiritual Message in

her er? ake Ds.

THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL, FEBRUARY 24, 1912 ——————— Poems.Prof. onis FORM OF BEQUEST been giving this course to crowded — — AE Yol houses this winter in Brooklyn andI hereby sive and bequeath to the in Philadelphia. He recognizes the National American Woman Suffrage it r educaticnal effect not only of poetry Association, being incorporated under but of political duties. He says: the laws of the District of Columbia, sion is “The ballot is an educator, and wo- the sum of $.........principal to any a men will become more practical and and interest to be applied by such aswise in using it." sociation for the support and promo- 1 WAY 10 HEl

NEW HAMPSHIRE NOTES Anna Shaw to Address Seven Meetings—Other Distinguished Speakers —Labor Men Endorse Suffrage Rev. Anna Shaw, President National American Suffrage Association, will speak at Claremont March 1; Newport, March 2; Keene, March 4; Nashua, March 5, Manchester, March 6, Dover, March 7, Hanover, March 8 or 9, and Lebanon after Hanover.

A meeting was held recently at the home of Mrs. John Gile, Hanover. Mrs. Gile is the wife of Dr. Gile, a counselor of Gov. Bass. Mrs. Gile and Mrs. Nichols, wife of the principal of Dartmouth College, both joined the association. Many of the wives of the professors were much interested and a Suffrage League -was formed. There was a meeting of the State Campaign Committee of the Concord Equal Suffrage Association at the Headquarters in Concord, on Feb. 17 at 2 P. M.

At a meeting of the Executive Board of the State Federation of Labor in Manchester, Feb. 7, a resolution was passed in favor of equal suffrage in New Hampshire. A principal of one of the New Hampshire secondary schools, to whose school the negative side was assigned for a woman suffrage debate, has stated that he has been unable to find any oppesing arguments!

There is much activity at Portsmouth. At the home of Mrs. William Judkins a meeting was held Feb. 14, at the close of which it was annmounced that Mrs. Florence Kelley will come and aid in the campaign. Mrs. R. Y. FitzGerald and Miss Alice Carpenter will also give their help. IN THE MAGAZINES

Castbers, J. The legal position of women in Norway. Nineteenth Century and After. London. February. Hard, William. At last a program: a law to make the children “theirs." Delineator. New York. March. Hegman, E. H. The wemen's auxiliary to the business body; what the women of Norfolk have done, what the women of Macon are plannins. American City., New York. February. Love, Currie. The British woman in Canada. United Empire. London. January.

pPage, Arthurr. Woman suffrage. National Review. London. Febru ary. Anti-suffrage arguments. Scheffauer, Herman. Human grist; women and children toilers in Eng land's underworld. London Magazine. London. February. Elizabeth J. Sherwood. THE CHILDREN'S HOUR.

Between the dark and the daylight When night is beginning to lower, Comes a pause in the day's occupa tions, That is known as the children' hour."

Our beloved American poet helps in the good and just cause. At the Woman Suffrage Bazaar and Exhibition at Horticultural Hall, Philadelphia, on Feb. 27 and 28, from 11 A. M. to 11 P. M., “The Wreck of the Hesperus" and other shadow pictures will be shown to the audience. Mrs. John Clarence Lee, president of the Browning Society, has kindly consented to read the descriptive poems. Miss Julia Williamson will tell three “Little Stories for Little People," and songs will be sung by Mrs. Percy Wynkoop, accompanied by Miss Dorothy Joline.

A child elocutionist, Ethel Harrison, will recite "Baby's Practice Hour." Another attraction will be Folk Lore stories by Miss Elizabeth I. Green, a well-known story-teller from Readins. These will be illustrated by lantern slides. There will be Negro sonss, popping partfes (corn, not leap year). and other exciting and amusing “stunts" for boys and girls. : Grab bags, an orange tree, toys and acandy table, conducted by the

FORM OF BEQUEST

I hereby give and bequeath to the National American Woman Suffrage Association, being incorporated under the laws of the District of Columbia, the sum of $...........principal and interest to be applied by such association for the support and promotion of the cause of woman suffrage.

Landsdowne Equal Franchise League, will be among the inducements. A 5 and 10c. table will draw forth the pennies. Some working girls in a box factory are giving up their few leisure hours to dressing dolls for the children's table. Little and bis people are ursed to come for at least a part of the two whole days from 11 to 11 to hear and see all the unique and attractive things offered. Afternoon tea will be served by aids in Martha Washington costume.

Committee for the children—Miss Alice Isabel Norris, chairman; Mrs. Henry Pemberton, Mrs. Christopher Fallon, Miss Caroline Hoffman, Mrs. Emma Epley, Mrs. H. Allen Winsor, Mrs. Paul McConomy, Mrs. Philip L. Spalding, Mrs. Oswald Chew, Miss Mary Winsor, Mrs. John Clarence Lee, Miss Elizabeth D. Green, Miss Julia Williamson, Mrs. John De Coursey, Mrs. J. C. Gabriel.

MRS. CATT HAS TROUBLES IN THE HOLY LAND

She and Dr. Aletta Jacobs Meet with a Series of Misfortunes, But Are Now Happy Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt writes in Jus Suffragii:

We arrived at the end of our month-long trip up the East African Coast on Nov. 18. We found the little city all excitement over its preparations for the reception of the British King and Queen, who would pass by next day, en route to India. The Khedive was coming, and there were to be processions and illuminations. Already the streets were gay with brilliant scarlet Turkish flags bearing the crescent, and the curious had begun to gather. A kins is not to be seen every day! The hotels had booked every bed and even floor space, and there was no place for us.

Bound for Jaffa Making our arrangements hastily, we feund ourselves, within a few hours, on a ship bound for Jaffa, the port of Jerusalem. The next morning, under blue skies and bright sunshine, we were anchored in the picturesque, rocky harbor made famous by the Biblical story of Jonah cast over to still the sterm, and the legendary tale of Andromeda chained to a rock and rescued by Perseus.

We were rowed ashore in boats which tossed about like corks, and were landed on a small stone pier, crowded with men who, to our unaccustomed eyes, looked like figures that had just stepped ferth from the flies of a theater. We climbed up narrow stony paths and through tiny, queer little streets, still leading upward, for Jaffa lies upon a steep hillside, until we came to our hotel. We were charmed, enchanted. Journey to Jerusalem

Our delight continued on our fourhours' journey by rail to Jerusalem. Men, quaintly garbed, were plowins, sometimes with camels, sometimes with donkeys, and always with an archaic single-handled plow. Modern Davids in plenty, with picturesque striped coats, could be seen tending their flocks, and it was through David's country we were passing. A cave was pointed out where Samson made love to Delilah, and the very spot where Goliath fell! Indeed, we could readily imagine the leaves of the Bible parting and its historic characters stepping forth, quite as they really were. We could believe what we wished as our dragoman pointed out this or that spot as the scene of some famillar Bible story. Alas, the Holy Land is a Land of Disenchantment! For instance, a beautitul Rebecca, barefooted, lithe, graceful, clad in a blue flowing sarment, stood outlined against a stone wall. A water jar was poised upcn her head and another was in her hand. No picture could be prettier. We drew nearer, and discovered that her face was much tattooed, her hair

ARE YOU SUBSCRIBING T0 A MAGAZINE? If so, order it through our agency. The commission is used for suffrage. We take subscriptions to any and all magazines. Club Rates Furnished. A WAY T0 HELP SUFFRAGE WITHOUT PAYING AN EXTRA CENT ELIZABETH Bureau National Suffrage Headquarters, 508 Fifth Avenue

HYGIENIC CORSETS Admirstion handicap to both social and business life. TI is a woman's duty to look her best. An unusual value at $5.50 and $7.50 HYGIENIC CORSET MFG. C0. 2

THE Compiled by Anna H. Shaw, Alice Stone Blackwell and Lucy E. Anthony. A book of woman suffrage readings and recitations. Price, 50 cents. Order from The Woman's Journal

unkempt, and her dress a mass of unspeakable filth! These women are mearly all tattooed, and, as they have discovered tattooing on the faces of the mummies of Egyptian women, it is probable that it was a general custom in Bible days, and that the Rebecca of old was no exception.

This sort of disillusion was our hourly experience. No country in the world can be more picturesque, and no people in the world can be more appealing to the artistic sense than these graceful, well-bullt men and women in their bright-colored flowing raiment; but also no country can be dirtier, more unsanitary, more moisome to the smell than this. Our delight at its quaintness sradually gave way to an uncomfortable conviction that we were catching something! As crawlers of all the breeds known to torment man have increased without discouragement since the old historic days, and as our poor, much-bitten bodies testifiea profusely to their presence and their industry, we had some srounds for our change of feeling. The discovery of the microbe has not added to the peace of mind of slobe-trotters, whatever it may have done for science.

A Change of Route

We were about ready to return when the news reached us that the cholera had broken out in Jaffa and that people embarking at that port must go into quarantine for five days. We decided to go through Syria, via Nablous, the land of the Samaritans, Nazareth, the Sea of Galilee, Damascus and Balbek to Beyrouth, a clean port, and from which a line of French ships went direct to Port Said without stopping at Jaffa. The additional trip was exceedingly interesting, and was needed to complete the impression of the Holy Land, but as the roads led up one side of a mountain range, then down the other side, across a valley, and acress mountains again, and as all of them were extremely rocky, it was a woefully fatiguing experience.

Put in Quarantine

Imagine our sensations when we found that we had run into the very trap we had tried so hard to avoid! An old woman died of heart failure in the night on our boat. The autherities of Port Said declared it might have been cholera, and they therefore refused to receive any passengers. We were carried on to Alexandria, and, having spent one day under the yellow flag on the ship, six hundred passengers were taken ashore to the “Lazaret,' where four indescribable, mever-to-be-forgotten days finally came to an end. A double, high picket fence, guarded by armed soldiers, made us understand that we were prisoners. For our keeping here, five persons to a room, we paid sixteen shillings per day. Like other prison-

61

Three beautiful halls with rooms connected. Especially suited for lodge rooms, concerts, dances, school purposes, meetings, recitals, etc. Three studios. Also a banquet hall, Apply on premises or to M. H. GULESIAN St. James Theatre, 239 Huntington Avenue, Boston ——————— ADVERTISING

When writing to the advertisers be sure to say, “I saw it in the Woman's Journal." ers, we were given “tickets of leave" and were placed under waten for a few days more. At Last Clean and Happy

Now, after a few days in the best hotel we have seen in five months, we feel restored to innocence and respectability. We have been scrubbed, fumisated, disinfected, laundered, and are clean. Only scars of the unholy bites of the Holy Land remain to remind us of what has been, and the rear of the microbe has lost its terrers. Cairo, Egypt, Dec. 26, 1911.

The New York News-Letter, the organ of the State Suffrage Association, is running a series of photegraphs of suffrage babies. They are a handsome and healthy lot, and show no signs of being neglected.

Senater Overman of North Carolina has introduced a resolution asking the Senate to authorize the Committee on Woman Suffrage during this Congress to hold hearings on this subject, and that the testimony thus taken be printed. The resolution allows the committee to employ stenographers to report the hearings, and it further provides that all witnesses must be put under oath. Sigrid A. Johnson

GOWNS ;-

—: GOWNS :1— Evening Gowns a specialty Style, fit and satisfaction guaranteed 673 Boylston St., Gill Bldg. Tel. B. B. 1471-M scotfish Temiers

Offered as companions. N given to fighting or roamins. Best for children's pets.

NEWCASTLE KENNELS Brookline, Mass. IC CORSETS unnatural development; a al and business life. an's duty to look her best. t $5.50 and $7.50

--- page 6 ---
WISCONSIN NOTES The Campaign Goes Forward Vigorously and With Bright Prospects The Political Equality League of Wisconsin is feeling greatly pleased at the result of the address siven by Miss Beatrice Forbes Robertson in the Davidson Theatre, Milwaukee, the afternoon of Lincoln's birthday. The audience was more than delighted, $200 were raised by subscription for the cause, and seventy-four new members joined the League.

One of the results of the active campaigsn being waged for woman suffrage in Wisconsin is the many noted speakers who are coming to the State to speak in favor of the cause. Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery, former president of the Pennsylvania Equal Suffrage Association, is now there and will speak in a number of cities. Prof. Zueblin will give an address in Milwaukee tomorrow evening. Prof. Max Eastman of Columbia University, and his wife, come a little later.

Women employees at the Wisconsin State capitol voted on the question of woman suffrage a few days age, and the result showed that the majority favor suffrage.

Woman suffrage speakers will appear at farmers' institutes at Juda, Darlington, Benton, Woodward and Ayoca, Wis.

The Republican Observer took a straw vote in Richland county, Wis., on equal suffrage. The result was 184 votes for and 150 against.

The La Crosse Equal Suffrage Society is one of the recent recruits to the army of Wisconsin women demanding votes. Miss Rose Keefe is president. Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery spoke in La Crosse on Miss Anthony's birthday.

A political Equality League has just been formed at Kenosha, Wis.: President, Mrs. Mary B. Bradford, also president of the Wisconsin Teachers' Associaticn; vice-president, Miss Florence Wells of Kemper Hall faculty; secretary, Mrs. R. C. Chase; treasurer, Mrs. Edward Stanlaw Jordan. The chairman of the finance committee, Miss Mary Randolph Thomas, is a cousin of President M. Cary Thomas of Bryn Mawr.

The Political Equality League of Wisconsin is already planning for the automobile campaign next summer. Several prominent people have already promised to loan their automobiles for a few weeks' tour, and more are expected. Miss Harrlet Grim, now speaking in the northern part of the State, a wonderfully-gifted sirl orator, will be among those in the auto speaking brigade.

NEW JERSEY NOTES.

NEW JERSEY NOTES.

Measure introduced in the Legislature—Women Full of Hope—All Societies Co-operating, and Many Meetings Planned

Today I have good news for the suffragists of New Jersey. Our first Woman Suffrage Resolution in the annals of the Woman Suffrage Association was introduced in our Legislature on Feb. 13, by Senator Gebhardt of Hunterdon County, and referred to the Judiciary Committee, consisting of Senators Edge. Read and Fielder. We expect to have a hearing at an early date.

Mrs. Vickers and I went to Trenton and sat in the sgallery with Senator Gebhardt's wife, who is a staunch suffragist. We were very much encouraged as a result of our interview with a number of the Senators. We were also introduced to Governor Wilson.

The State Suffrage Association, organized 42 years ago by Lucy Stone, and reorganized 21 years ago, now having 20 auxiliary Leagues, has combined with the younger organizations, the Equal Franchise Society, organized nearly two years ago, and the Weomen's Political Union, organized last June (the latter is affiliated with the State Association), for joint efforts in legislative work. The Men's League is also helping. Their

E Wo MAN JOURNAL. FEBRU ARY 1912 . ADV I know that Lucy Stone would be in suffrage propaganda, and was thee ——————— pleased could she see her “child."only woman appointed by Governor h e o o o the pl PRIN saged Mrs. Clara Bewick Colby, ers' Liabilities Commission, of which 7 Ph. B., for cne week, to speak in as she was afterwards elected secretary many towns and cities as possible from by the members. ers of many well known March 1 to 8. The schedule so far is: them “7h: Woman's J , WOMEN'S BRAINS NEEDED pen day and night. City, New Brunswick, Trenton, River- —— E. L ton, Moorestown, Camden, Bridgeton, James A. Sheridan, for many years 123 Pearl St., Boston, Vineland, Cape May City, Atlantic practising attorney in Milwaukee and ——————————— City. member of the school board of that INVEST!

We have sent literature to all our legislators, and 1200 letters more, forwarded with literature, asking ministers to preach on woman suffrage, will go out next week. When we have our hearing we will charter a car and decorate it appropriately. Our constitution requires that a resolution for a constitutional amendment shall pass two consecutive Lesislatures, and four months after it will be submitted to the voters at a special election. Clara S. Laddey, State President.

THE MEN CHEERED

At the recent hearing on woman suffrage at the Ohio Constitutional Convention, the Columbus Journal says, “Mrs. Harriet Taylor Upton reminded the women that applause must be left to the delegates; and consequently demonstrations were carefully avoided by all but members of the constitutional convention, who often applauded vociferously."

CONCERNING WOMEN Miss Sylvia Pankhurst is making many friends both for herself and for the cause, during her American tour. Pleasant reports of her meetings come from every direction.

Mrs. Emily M. Bishop gave one of her fine equal suffrage readings for the Milwaukee suffragists on Washington's birthday. She will repeat it for the Beston E. S. A. on March 7. Mrs. G. G. Scott of Montclair, N. J., celebrated Lincoln's birthday by hansging out the Stars and Stripes side by side with a flag bearing the words “Votes for Women." She said that in view of Lincoln's opinion on woman suffrage, his birthday was an appropriate time to start the custom in Montclair.

Rev. Anna H. Shaw sgave two addresses in Philadelphia last week. On Friday she was the guest of the Philomusian Club, and told them why women should vote, and Saturday night she addressed a mass meeting held under the combined auspices of the Twenty-second Ward Equal Franchise League and the Ward Branch of the Woman Suffrage Society of Philadelphia, in Association Hall.

Miss Harriet Grim, lecturing in the southern part of Wisconsin for the Political Equality League, has been having unpleasant experiences during the late “cold spell.' She was stalled by snow drifts while traveling by rail to a meeting at Baraboo, and she says in a recent letter to the Headquarters that her trip has been a series of delayed trains, cold hotel rooms and general discomfort, but that in spite of the weather her meetings have been large and enthusiastic.

Mrs. Meredith Nicholson writes in the Indianapolis Star: “I believe that the interests of women and children will not be adequately cared for so long as only half the people have a voice in gsovernment. Until women vote 1 do not doubt that we shall continue to spend more for Dreadnaughts than for schools; to take more thought for the security of the Steel Trust and its accumulated millions than for the welfare of the miserable workmen who are paid less than living wages under the trust-creating system."

Mrs. Crystal Eastman Benedict, campaign manager for the Political Equality League of Milwaukee, is confident that Wisconsin will win in the suffrage campaign now being waged in that State. Mrs. Benedict received her training in the Woman Suffrage Party of New York City, under Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt. She is one of

the youns college women most active in suffrage propaganda, and was the only woman appointed by Governor Hughes of New York on the Employers' Liabilities Commission, of which she was afterwards elected secretary by the members.

WOMEN'S BRAINS NEEDED

James A. Sheridan, for many years practising attorney in Milwaukee and member of the school board of that city, thinks women should vote because the welfare of the republic rests upon the intelligence of its people. Says Mr. Sheridan:

“It is a maxim that a republic like ours depends for its progress and welfare on the intelligence of its citizens. I do not hesitate to assert that the women of Wisconsin are, as a rule, the better educated class of our citizens. Seldom if ever it occurs that a class is graduated from one of our high schools or colleges that the girl members do not outnumber the members, at least two to one, and practically all our teachers are wo men; and they are women simply because women are better qualified to do the work of education than men. The enfranchisement of women will double the intelligence of our voting population. The purpose of our public schocl system is to furnish intelligent citizens. Then why not permit all of our educated citizens to help in the administration of State affairs?"

A WOMAN'S JOURNAL TO BE PRINTED IN CHINA Appeal for Papers, Magazines and Books for Women to be Transiated in a Christian College at Nankin There has come to me a cry for literature to be translated for the uplift of the women of China, so urgent and far-reaching in its possibilities that it will touch the heart of every progressive worker and receive a prompt response. May I pass it on through The Woman's Journal?

The plea comes from Miss Laura M. White, who is at the head of a union college and normal school for Chinese girls in Nankin. Nankin is the most important educational center in the country, and will, in all probability, be the capital of the United States of China. In a private letter Miss White says: “Won't yeu mail to me any articles, books, or old magazines, on the woman or the child, etc., etc.? “Why do I need them?

“I think there is a turn or ways just mow in woman's work in China. The time has come when an appeal is not only to be made to the individual woman, but when we must furnish mew ideals, new customs, new paths of service for a whole nation of women who have rejected the old ways, who demand freedem, who wish to enter every path that men tread, even to the shouldering of a gsun on a Manchu-killing mission!

“In connection with our college work I have consented to edit a Chinese Woman's Journal, financed by the Christian Literature Society. Much of the work on the paper will be done by our college girls, for I aim to make a good translating department a feature of our college. The books and articles translated and adopted will be published in The Woman's Journal.

“Thus in the college the girls will be learning how to teach a whole nation of ignorant, eager women, and learning a little of how to make altruism a science. They will learn to write articles broadly religious, with Christianity as the fulfilment and crown of science, and not the foe of evolution.

“They are now working on stories for children, adapting talks to teachers, to mothers, working on articles about hygiene, the cigarette, etc. One girl is working on the translation of Sadie Crewe," another on a series of Parables of Nature, while a very ambitious one has commenced Les Miserables. “Oh, that I might be deluged with American Woman's Journals and other literature about women! Not namby-pamby, predigested spuff, but things a little hard to digest.

“Now, please interest your progressive women in our girls and college plans, and if you and they will send me even old magazines about women and children, domestic science, teach

ADVERTISEMENTS CLASSIFIED

PRINTERS

We beg to announce that we are printers of many well known publications, among them “7h2 Woman's Journal. have booklet, a magazine or a book it along. Open day and night. E. L. GRIMES CoMPANY 22 Pearl St., Boston, Mass.

INVESTMENTS

Independent women investors are realizing the value of our shares and in consequence we have only a few remaining unsold. We want to have you learn about the BEST income producer, for the longest time of any investment with which you are familiar: our DIXIE PECAN GROVES. PAPER SHELL PECANS ARE BEING USED SO MUCH THAT AT PRESENT THEY ARE BRINGING $1 PER POUND AT THE TREE, WITH THE DEMAND MANY HUNDRED TIMES THE AVALL- ABLE SUPPLY. WE DO NOT FIGURE MORE THAN 35 CENTsS PER POUND.

Let us send you our booklet, “A Royal Income from the King of Nuts," so that you may learn something of our investment and what other people know about a safe yet profitable placeto put your surplus.

E. W. DENNISON 132 North Grove Street East Orange, N. J.

JACOBS' 1912 EUROPEAN TOURS An Ideal Summer Vacation would be our five weeks, COACHING TOUR OF THE BRITISU ISLES, adding the Continent if desired. Prospectus gives full particulars. Address C. W. JACOBS, Drawer “J," Rock Valley, Ia. PRIMROSE ORANGE PEOE Everywhors Most Populan DURE 20 cents and this PACKAGE coupon will buy a regular 362 can at En your grocer's or at e fasemeseief 4 feom

PRIMROSE ORANGE PEKOE Everywhers Most Popular 20 cents and this coupon will buy a regular 362 can at your grocer's or at 15 Commercial Whf., Boston

ing hygiene, kindergarten songs and plays and stories for translating and adapting—besides some tough meat for me—I shall be most srateful." 1 have already sent Miss White several packages of clippings, Woman's Journals, etc., and a copy of “Woman and Labor." Will others please respond? Send to Miss Laura M. White, 4 Thibet Road, Shanghai. Remember, old articles and books are as good as new ones, as it is all new to the Chinese women.

Who knows what seed sown in this Woman's Journal, printed in such a strange language on the other side of the world, may blossom later in “Votes for Women" in the future United States of China?

3040 Hoover St., Los Angeles.

“ANTI-SUFFRAGISTICUS"

Prof. F. Spencer Baldwin of Boston University, an ultra “Anti," edits the department in the Boston Transeript called “The Social Settler” He can hardly mention votes for women without foaming at the pen, and his outbursts of opposition have called out some amusing verses from “The Looker On" in the Beston Common. Says The Looker On:

Speaking of the Transcript, its Social Settler, whatever that is, certainly has a grand srouch about Equal Sufrrage. I have visions of a wildeyed citizen tearing to shreds such luckless copies of Votes for Women and The Woman's Journal as he can lay his violent hands on, and dancing up and down on the fragments in an ecstacy of rage. I can't help it; that's

LECTURE BUREAU

LECTURE BUREAU

vote addi quir

Succenr to (CVIC FORU LECTURE BUREA) quir REPRESENTS R O MI N E NT T LATFO R M EOoPLE 21 West 44th Street - New York

1 has ence ing B. hav lini pro

DRAMATIC PORTRAYAL

EMILY MONTAGUE BiSHOP is available for spring dates and for the season of 1912-1913 for her Suffrage Program composed

wro Iw wor

HUMOROUS SENATE SCENES Entitled “MAN, WOMAN'S EQUAL"

1 Mic birt erir

For circulars, terms and dates birt address erin EMILY. MONTAGUE BISHOP, 600 W. 192d St., New York City M spe LAUNDRESS

spe tion Wo

LAUNDRESS Swedish woman, expert in fine hand laundry, would like a few private families' laundry work. Address Box 303, Woman's Journal Office.

wou mar “Th Pro.

HOUSEWORK.—Armenian of 20, with excellent 1ecommendation from former employer, wants place, preferably in family where he can his English. Can read and write Engliish, but not speak it fluently. Address Olan Shirinian, 57 Market Street, Lynn, Mass.

S hay use min pro

NURSE OR CHAUFFEUR.—Armenian with four years' experience as nurse, seven as chauffeur, and twelve in wants work in either line. Speaks English and French; has first-rate references. Address Aris Garinian, 28 Kneeland Street, Boston. HOUSE OR STORE.—Armenian teacher, here to take normal course, could not follow lectures at Normal School for lack of practice in hearing English, though well able to read it and to understand it if spoken slowly. Wants hou,ework or other job where he can hear English talked, Bxcellent reference as to character. Address Bartevian, 253 Shawmut Avenue, ston.

of I bet was den mor T Mot gar affl mern con

LLINOIS EQUAL SUFFRAGE ASSO. 938 Fine Arts Blds., Chicago, publishes the following literature: “Bridset's Sisters," a sumrase play; per copy........... 25c “Why," a two-page leaflet; per thousand........... $2.00 “Shall Men Vote?" leaflet; per thousand........... . $2.50 Illinois Chronology, leaflet; per thousand.......... . $2.50 Mayors of Five States; per Bible on Woman Suffrage; Dr 0 Laws of Illinois; per copy.. 10c “Mr. Lex," in paper covers; Handsome crepe paper, yellow-bordered suffrage napkins; per thousand.....$4.00 Per hundred............ 50

It poli esti be cast tial New from in Mrs Car

A suff The N. cial on t

the impression he makes on me when I read his column, which I always do when I catch sight of the adjectives I have learned to associate with his masterly treatment of Equal Suffrage. It is really quite a study in the art of Socially Settling the question. But I wender if he really does settle it.

H appr Perk cent gan The book

When the Settler's not engaged in Socializing, Socializing, When he has a little space and ink to spare, Then the way he goes for women is surprising, quite surprising, And you really wouldn't think the man would dare.

An State wom Lesi gani a ca amer

For they're after every womansuffrage-hater, suffrage-hater, And no matter how elusive he may be, They will get him—maybe soon and maybe later, soon or later, And his fate will be a fearful thins to see!

Th Leag that Sund selve open mem

In a cage securely fastened, they will that show him, they will show him, Sund And the curious crowd will come to see him there, selve With a sign which reads, so everyone open will know him, one will know mem him: “Anti-suffragisticus—extremely rare!" As han

As. has i latur const for tion marr count entitl

Nobody supposes that the kingdom of heaven is to come out of the ballotbox; but it will be a clear gain if this last difficult step can be taken in the direction of equality of rights and unity of interests as between the sexes.—Rev. Charles G. Ames.

On chise Wash herea direct direct

“I theoroughly believe in suffrage for On women, though I take no active part chiser in the movement," says Mrs. William Wash Watson, wife of the English poet now herea svisiting this country. direct direct

--- page 7 ---
s T

NOTES AND NEWS

So many women have resgistered to vote in Alameda County, Cal., that 79 additional voting precincts will be required.

The Herald of Washinston, D. C., has opened its columns to correspondence on woman suffrage, and is printing many letters, pro and con.

Both Los Angeles and Kansas City have concrete ovens with fire-brick linings set up in the parks, and fuel is provided for pienic parties.

“Tell me whether it is right or wrons; if right, I will do it; if wrons I will not; but never let me hear the word expedient.'—Queen Victoria.

The suffragists of Grand Rapids, Mich., celebrated Miss Anthony's birthday by a reception to Mrs. Catherine Waugh McCulloch.

Mayor Hunt of Cincinnati will speak on Feb. 29 before the Constitutional Committee, cn “Why We Want Woman Suffrage in Our Constitution."

hand fami- 303,

Speaking of graceful tributes, how would you like to be the wife of the man who wrote “The Vampire," and “The Female of the Species?"—The Progressive Woman.

with ivate glish. peak n, 57

Several anti-suffrage burlesques have been gotten up and are beinsg used as entertainments by shallowminded people—sometimes, most inappropriately, evon in churches.

The Sunshine Equal Suffrage Club of Detroit, Mich., is made up of girls between ten and fifteen years old. It was organized by Mrs. Margaret Alden just before Christmas, and meets monthly at the members' homes.

cher, fol ek of well it if other Bxdress enue,

The Pennsylvania Congress of Mothers voted to take no part in regard to the suffrage question and to affliate with neither side, since its membership is composed of women connected with both sides.

It goes without saying that men and politicians alike will not lightly underestimate the coming power which will be wielded by the 800,000 votes to be cast by women in the next Presidential election.—Philadelphia Telegraph. The Women's Political Union of New York will give a tea tomorrow from 4 to 6 P. M., at 46 E. 29th street, in honor of Miss Ellen Glasgow and Mrs. Louise Collier Willcox. Miss Carcline Duer will be hostess.

A Congressional Hearing on woman suffrage will be given on March 13. The Congressional Committee of the N. A. W. S. A. will entertain the Offcial Board of the Association at a tea on the afternoon of March 12.

when ys do ives I his Irage. art of But I it.

Half a page is devoted to a very appreciative review of Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Gilman's book, “Our Androcentric Culture," in The Vote, the organ of the Women's Freedom League. The review calls it “a really sreat book."

ed in ink to en is 8. e man

An amendment to the Nebraska State Constitution, enfranchising women, will be presented to the next Legislature. The suffragists are organizing throughout the State to wage a campaign of education, that the amendment may be carried.

omaner, ay be, nand thing

The Chicago Political Equality League has asked the ministers of that city to make March 10 “Suffrage Sunday," and either preach themselves on equal rights for women, or open their pulpits for addresses by members of the League.

Assemblyman Murray, by request, has introdused in the New York Legislature a concurrent resolution for a constitutional amendment providing for woman suffrage, with the limitation that a woman who is a citizen by marriage only must have been in this country for five years in order to be entitled to vote.

gdom ballotif this in the sand nthe

One of the results of the enfranchisement of women in the State of Washington is that their names will hereafter appear in at least one city directory. The publishers of the city directory of Seattle for 1912 announce

ge for e part illiam ot mow

THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL, FEBRUARY 24, 1912 that they have made arrangements to their own benefit, and to the public's SUF have the wife's name appear in par- sreat advantage, because there are enthesis immediately after that of other women who are timid, or, sloth- N her husband, the residence address ful, or ignorant, or incapable, or weak. following. or helpless, or merely well kept? f ———————————

The Women Clerks' Trade Union of Berlin, Germany, which has worked for years for inclusion in the Imperial system of pensions and insurances, has lately received assurance that the women are soon to be admitted on fair terms. A feature of their last convention was a vigorous demand for the ballot. The Judicial Recall in California requires a 12 per cent petition.

The Portland Woman's Club, more than 300 strong, went over lock, stock and barrel to the cause of Woman Sufrage yesterday afternoon.—Portland (Ore.) Telegram. New Zealand lately cast a majority vote for nation-wide no license, but mot the 60 per cent. required to carry it. The no-license territory has grown steadily since the ballot was granted to women.

A meeting unique in the history of woman suffrage was held recently in a convent in New York City. Through the kindness of the Mother Superior, the use of the assembly hall of the convent was offered “for the purpose of presenting a subject in which all thinking women are interested."

Everyone should read wWilliam Hard's valuable article in the current Delineator on the equal suardianship question. Mr. Hard has drawn up what he thinks a model equal guardianship law, and he asks suggestions from his readers as to changes and improvements in it. The Delineator is rendering a sreat service to the women's cause by this series of articles.

Professor Herbert E. Mills, head of the economics department in Vassar College, spoke for equal suffrage the other day in Albany, N. Y. Prof. Mills has been active in public matters in Poughkeepsie for several years, is president of the board of education, and has studied extensively the economic and industrial problems of the day.

The formation of a National Men's League for Woman Suffrage is under consideration by leading men of this country, and will probably ceme to pass in the near future. An International Men's League for Woman Suffrage was organized in 1911, the president being Sir John Cockburn, K.C.M. B.

The equal suffrage agitation is interesting Cuban women. It seems odd, but it is in accord with the natural law of action and reaction that the cause is taken up with the most fervor and breaks out most unexpectedly in what are supposed to be the stronsholds of feminine subordination.—Baltimore American.

In response to a very lively and general interest in suffrage among the women of the University of Chicago, particularly the wives of the members of the faculty, Mrs. Beatrice Forbes Robertson Hale gave an address on Feb. 19, in Mandel Hall. Mrs. Hale is the daughter-in-law of Professor Willlam Gardner Hale, head of the Latin department.

“Women do not neglect their families because they have the privilege of voting. We find that it doesn't take as long to vote as to match a piece of silk," said Mrs. E. T. Taylor, wife of one of the Colorado Congressmen, in addressing a bis meeting at Baltimore the other day. Congressman Taylor confirmed this. He named over a long list of good laws which the women voters have secured, and he said that they ought also to get credit for the many bad laws which they prevent.

Colonel Roosevelt feels about woman suffrage as many good men do. They think the women ought not to be troubled about suffrage unless they are willing. But how about the many women—good, capable, intelligent, active women—who are known to want suffrage? shall they be denied the right to participate in elections for

their own benefit, and to the public's sreat advantage, because there are other women who are timid, or, slothful, or ignorant, or incapable, or weak. or helpless, or merely well kept? If the right or duty of suffrage shall be determined on that basis, it will also have to be denied the men.—Portland

“No stronger argument for political equality can be conceived than this nation-wide corruption of white slavery, the moral disintegration of the police system in spite of many good men on the force, and consequently the failure to grant women common civic protection," says Mrs. B. C. Gudden of Oshkosh, Wis. “The National American Medical Society at the St. Louis convention took a firm stand against evils which do not end with the degradation and death of these unfertunate girls, but may carry in after years disease, paresis and degeneracy into the citadel of the home."

Mrs. Edith Webster at a late meeting of the Political Equality League in Milwaukee gave an interesting account of a suffrage tour she has been making through Dodge and Washington counties. Mrs. Webster had some appreciative things to say about the men of Wisconsin. Until three years ago she lived in England, and her memories of how the Englishmen treated the suffragists make the attitude of the Wisconsin men all the more delightful. Mrs. Webster praised the excellent work Zona Gale is doing in Portage for the suffrage cause.

A score or more of Cleveland women went to Columbus in a special train to attend the recent hearing on woman suffrage at the Ohio Constitutional Convention. In the party were Professor Emma S. Perkins of Western Reserve College; Miss Louise Graham of the Cleveland Leader; Mrs. L. B. Bacon, a niece of Susan B. Anthony; Mrs. Arnold Green, Mrs. L. H. Brittin, Mrs. John H. Lotz, Mrs. M. B. Vorce, Mrs. Gecrge S. Addams, Mrs. C. D. Friebolin, Mrs. A. K. Krause, Mrs. H. E. Hollingshead, Miss Jessie Ansgell, Miss Georgia Leighton Norton, Miss Bertelle M. Lyttle, Miss Alpha Robbins, Miss Lillian Smith, Miss Ava Buell, Miss Rose Miller, Miss Ruth Presley and Mrs. Thomas P. Schmidt.

The arguments against the granting of equal suffrage to women were pounced upon, beaten to a pulp and thrown helplessly into the corner last evening by Dr. Stephen S. Wise, rabbi of the Free synagog in New-York, in a lecture on “Women in Citizenship," delivered before a large mixed audience in the art museum. Broadsides of eloquent wit, satire and logic were directed against the most vital points of the “anti" forces, and it was observed that, though many anti-suffragists were seen, none were heard in the questioning which followed Dr. Wise's address. The speaker could hardly be called a suffragist, he is so much more, and his belief is not so much in women's rights as in human rights.—Springfield (Mass.) Republican.

THE REAL RACE SUICIDE Every ten seconds, somewhere in the world, a baby dies. Poverty, crowding, sreed, irresponsibility lead to the real race suicide.—The Western Woman Voter.

MEN'S LEAGUE TO DINE

The Massachusetts Men's League for Woman Suffrage will have a dinnmer at the Twentieth Century Club Rooms, 3 Joy street, Beston, next Wednesday at 6.30 P. M., to rejoice over the signal gains of the past year. Men's Leagues have been formed at Harvard, Dartmouth, Yale, and in several Western States. Representatives of these Leagues are expected to speak on this occasion. Ladies are mvited. Tickets, $1. Those expecting to attend are requested to notify Mr. Francis J. Garrison, 4 Park street, Boston, not later than nmext Monday.

Mrs. Florence Kelley's article on Child Labor, which appears in this week's Woman's Journal, can be had in pamphlet form from National Suffrage Headquarters, 505 Fifth avenue, New York. Price, 5 cents.

A Suffrage Answer to An Anti-Suffrage Platform A new leafiet, in parallel columns. Bvery legislator should receive one this session ......... Per 100 Also good for general use............. Postpaid LATEST PAMPHLETS

By Mrs. Harper The World Movement for Woman Suffrage ......... Postpaid How Six States Won Woman Suffrage ............... Postpaid By Mrs. Porritt The Causes of the Revolt of the Women in England.. Postpaid The Militant Suffrage Movement in England ......... Postpaid The Political Dutles of Mothers .................. Postpaid Votes and Sables .... Postpaid WHAT WOMEN MIGHT DO WITH THE BALLOT

A new series of pamphlets by eminent authors. Twelve are in preparation. The following four ready now: The Abolition of Child Labor By Florence Kelley The Abolition of White Slave Traffic 05 50 By Clifford G. Roe Postpaid Reasonable Postal Laws By James L. Cowles 06 54 Fire Prevention By Arthur E. McFarlane Does the Husband Support the Wife? By Emmeline Pethick Lawrence, Editor of “Votes for Women," and Charlotte Perkins Gilman, Editor of “The Forerunner"....... 05 50 Postpaid 06 59 Report of the Special Commission Appointed by the Chamber of Deputies on the Workings of Woman Suffrage All Over the World Resume translated by Mrs. Raymond Brown... 05 50 Postpaid 06 58 Is Woman Suffrage Important?............ 2 for .05 25 By Max Eastman Postpaid 2 for .06 25 By Alice Stone Blackwell Postpaid 2 for .06 Women Should Mind Their Own Business By Prof. E. J. Ward Why Man Needs Woman's Ballot 2 for .05 25 By Clifford Howard Postpaid 06 29 When All the Women Want it By Alice Stone Blackwell Disfranchisement By Dr. W. E. Burghardt Du Bois.............. 05 50 Postpaid 06 54 Breaking into the Human Race By Rheta Childe Dorr.... 05 50 Postpaid .06 56

LATEST LEAFLETS

“The Ladies Battle" An Answer to Molly Elliott Seawell By Alice Stone Blackwe!l Mrs. Howe's Census Postpaid Extracts from a Canvass of the Per 100 .15 20 Clergy in the Suffrage States Gains in Equal Suffrage A Table Showing the Progress in the Past Eighty Years Postpaid Rainbow Fliers in German .........Per 100 15 20 The New America Per copy Per 100 Suffrage Song Used in the California Campaign o1 1 Postpaid 02 87 PENNANTS

Yellow felt with white letters Per doz. Large size 12x30 inches................. 50 5.40 25 2.40 Send stamp for the new list of Suffrage Plays, giving prices and descriptions. Free on application.

THE NEW STICKER or SEAL An adaptation of the design showing Liberty welcoming the new star— California. Use them on all your letters and parcels. Neatly put up in oiled paper books of 100. Price, per book ....... $0.75 Price, 10 books ......... 5.00

NEW PICTURE POSTER

Liberty welcoming the sixth star.

For advertising meetings Space left for date and place. Size 36 x 42 in. Printed in purple, green and white Price, singly—10c. Postpaid—.15 Per doz.—$1.00 Postpaid—$1.25

Prejudice battling with Justice.... An artistic picture issued by the Artists' Suffrage League. 108 C

VOTES FOR WOMEN NOT

inty colors in dainty bo PALE BLUE Lettered in silver PALE YELLOW Lettered in gold. 6oc Per Box Postpaid

Good as decoration. They are gay and yellow and each is tied with a aid votes for women ribbon. 000 . 0 2 for 25c TTONS $1.50 Per Dozen Votes for Women Paper Napkins Just the Thing for Teas, Stamps Luncheons, Bte. Decorated with a Blue “Votes for EN — Women" Border u can ad- Order now Price 35 cents per 100, post paid.

Votes for Women Rubber Stamps

—VOTES FOR WOMEN — The easiest way in which you can ad vertise the cause.

PHOTOCRAFH CALLERY of EmMINENT SUFFRACISTS Aa interesting collection of porraits, mounted on canvas, all ready for hanging as a temporary exhibion.

65 Suffrage Pictures with typewrit. en lecture to accompany them. Can be delivered by any one.

The gallery may be rented to any suffrage association for the nominal fee of $1.00 plus expressage.

Rent of slides and lecture, $5 plus expressage. Special rates by the week or month.

Of interest to Legisiators

PAPE

NEW SI1X STAR BUT One cent each. 75 cents per 100. Postpaid 85 cents per 100.

Price 15 cents, post pald.

SLIDE LECTURES

VOTES FOR WOMEN BUTTERFLIES

NEW KIND OF SUFFRAGE BADGE They stick tight Wherever they light, Try them and see.

Postpaid $2.20 per 100. NEW POST CARD

ENCLISH POST CARDS

CALIFORNIA POPPIES

63

Per Per Copy Doz. o01 10 02 12 05 50 06 54 03 30 04 34 03 30 04 34 o1 10 .02 14 o1 10 02 .13

2 for 25c $1.50 Per Dozen

--- page 8 ---
64

A WOMAN'S RESOLVE ——— By Asnes Florida Chalmers Resolved: To know a little more of law each day; To seek communal interests, and to pray For faithfulness to every civic need; To exercise my franchise as my creed; To work, and watch, and pray for public good, And freely give all to earth's brotherhood.

Grand Rapids, Mich. ICELAND'S WOMEN GAIN THE SUFFRAGE

How They Have Used Their Votes t. Relieve a Chronic Fuel Famine

“The Awakening of Iceland" is the title of an interesting article by Prof. Jerome Hall Raymond in the Twenti eth Century Magazine. Iceland is one fifth larger than Ireland. Prof. Raymond outlines its history, its strusgles for home rule, and its rapid prosress since this was attained. Last May the Althing, or Parliament, voted for an amendment to the constitution embodying several reforms, amons others extending Parliamentary suffrage to women and to servants. Prof. Raymond continues

Women already had municipal suffrage in all the Icelandic towns, and they were also eligible to membership in all the town councils and boards of education. In the town council of Reykjavik, the capital and metropolis of Iceland, there are at present three women members, out of a total of fifteen. In the council which preceded the present one, there were four women members. There seems to be no opposition in Iceland to women voting and taking part in public affairs. Not long ago an artificial gas plant was established in Reykjavik, which now enables the people to light their houses and cook with gas. Occasicnally some man is heard to complain that this was the work of the women, who wanted the sas for their culinary operations.

When one remembers the scarcity of fuel in Iceland, one does not wonder that the women wanted the sgas. There is no coal worth mentioning in the island—only lignite, which is by no means a satisfactery fuel, and which is hardly known at all to the people at large. There is no timber to provide wood for fuel; many an Icelander has lived and died without ever seeing a tree. Peat is cut and used for fuel almost everywhere in the island—another point in which Iceland resembles Ireland. But peat is not a fuel which a progressive housewife loves. It is so undesirable that nebody will burn it alone unless absolutely compelled to do so. The imported coal is so expensive that few are able to afford it. So serious is the question of fuel in Iceland that many of the farmhouses have no stoves or fireplaces for heating at all. Doubt less this is one reason why pulmonary diseases are so common in the island For centuries this famine of fuel has been its greatest scourge; and it is one manifestation of the awakening of Iceland that the women of Reykjavik have at last secured the establishment of a gas plant, and are new able to cook the family food and light thein homes with gas. This one improve ment has made life in Reykjavik much casier and more worth while; and the complaint of the few male objectors that “the women are to blame for it has been considered a testimony to the value of women's activity in pol tics. Accordingly most Icelanders have been entirely willing to so far ther and permit women to vote in par liamentary elections also.

The provision to extend the suffrage to servants (male and female) has had more opponents. The early Icelandic colonists of a thousand years age brought with them their slaves, whom they had captured in their piratical raids in Ireland and elsewhere; and though slavery gradually disappeared in Iceland, owing to economic causes, yet the early division of the population into the two distinct classes of masters and servants has remained to this day. Until 1911, no servant, male or female, had a vote in either national or local elections.

The term “servant" has a special meaning in Iceland. It applies to all persons, men or women, who work for

JTHE WOMAN'S JOURNAL, FEBRUARY 24, 1912 ——— others under yearly contracts; and It was voted to authorize Miss such persons constitute a very large Addams to appoint a committee to proportion of the population—prob- take preliminary steps for forming a ably fully one-half. federation of all the Suffrage Associa-

With the spread of education and enlightenment, the servants of Iceland sradually became more and more un willing to be excluded from political life. Many of them emisrated to America; many others misrated to the towns and thus endeavored to escape from their class. So there came to be a “servant problem" even in Iceland. It became increasingly diffcult to set good servants on the farms; and still greater difficulties in this respect loomed in the near future. So another step toward democracy had to be taken, and the dominant political party, the “Independents," included in their program of reform the extension of the suffrage to servants, though there was considerable opposition to it from the more conservative element of the population.

To become a valid part of the Con stituticn, an amendment must be passed in exactly the same form by two successive Althings. As a general thing, all members of the Althing serve six years, and all go out of office together at the end of each six-year period. Under ordinary circumstances, the sessions of the Althing are biennial, beginning the middle of Februmy, on alternate years, and continuing two months. When an amendment to the Censtitution is adopted. however, the session of the Althing comes to an end, the terms of office of all the members cease, and there must be new elections and an extra session of the Althing the following year. So the adoption of a constituticnal amendment by the members of the Althing, unless at the end of the six-year period, is equivalent to voting them selves out of office; and they cannot be expected to indulge in such recreation very joyously or very often. It requires patrictism of a high order— or the pressure of urgent need.

In the regular course of events, this autumn and winter would have seen no session of the Althing; but as the constitutional amendment was adopted last May and the Althing dissolved in consequence, there was an election of members for a new Althing in October, 1911, and the cable announced that the amendment had been adopted a secend time. This makes it a part of the Constitution.

In adopting this amendment to its Constitution, Iceland has taken three important steps toward political dem ocracy: (1) she has enfranchised her servant class; (2) she has completed the enfranchisement of her women; and (3) she has removed a remnant of medievalism in her legislative sys tem by abolishing the royal appoint ment cf six Senators. A FAIR-MINDED PRESS

The Wisconsin papers are showing themselves fair and often friendly to woman's enfranchisement. Up to date there have been but two papers in the State that have refused to print answers to adverse articles or to correct misstatements. The other 700 or more papers are willing the subject should rest on its merits, and publish articles representing both sides.

It would be very useful to have The Woman's Journal sent regularly to all these editors. Who will make a sift for this purpose? To editors in the campaign States, we will send the Journal for half price. NOTES AND NEWS The Manitoba Grain Grewers' Convention has passed a resolution in favor of woman suffrage. .

The city of Lackawanna, N. Y., is asking to have its charter amended so as to enable women to vote on municipal improvements. A bill to this effect has passed the Lower House of the New York Legislature.

Jane Addams and Dr. Sophonisba Breckenridge had arranged a reception at the Chicago Woman's Club recently for Miss Ethel Arnold of England. Learning that her train was six hours late and that she would be unable to be present, they telephoned to Milwaukee for Sylvia Pankhurst, and in a few moments she was on her way to Chicago, where she arrived in time to speak in Miss Arnold's stead. There was an attendance of about 300, including many persons of distinction.

An Opponcnt Asks Help

A Western Anti-suffragist appeals to the Writer of this Column to Right the Wrongs being done to the Women who do not want the Burden of the Ballot—A New Viewpoint for us

ROM the Black Hills in the far West, from a would-be-suffrage State, comes a letter from an anti-suffragist who asks that I open this column to the opponents of equal suffrage and do what I can to right their “wrongs."

The most I had hoped for the stories in this column was that they might reach a few of the indifferent, a few of the uninformed, a few of the wavering, and in even a faltering way show that there is a vital connection between life, every-day life, and Votes for Women, I wanted to reach the non-suffragists. In my fondest dreams I had mever hoped to reach the antisuffrage camp. What then is my amazement to learn that these articles are not only read by an antisuffragist, but that she should be so convinced of my sincerity and fairness that she asks me to present the case for the opposition It is enough to make one pause, and try to put oneself in her place. Here is the letter “I note with interest that you desire your readers to send you the facts in any case where there is a wrong being done women and girls which they would like dealt with.

“To my mind a very grievous wrong is being done the great majority of women of our country in the attempts being made by a minority to force responsibilities upon them.

“I am a comparatively young woman. I have a husband and children. Economic conditions make it necessary for me to do some outside work to increase our income. This is a misfortune, although we are not suffering from it in this individual case. I am too busy to desire an other care. Should the rights of suffrage be obtained for me by the clamors of the restless, unhappy few who are agitating for it, duty would seem to demand that I exercise these rights. I have gone so far, in my indignation, as to say that 'I never will vote, because it will have been forced upon me and not conferred by any request of mine, not even that of a majority of women." However, I can see where I might change my mind, and that would be where an equally good man and woman should be contesting for an office. I would vote for the man.

“This wrong of compelling satisfied and fully occupied women to bear the additional responsibility and weight of participation in affairs of politics and government I deeply deplore.” This letter is, of course, valuable to us because it presents the case of the anti-suffragists so clearly and because it gives us the chance to answer in the open, as it were. Its second point of value lies in the fact that it forces us honestly to put ourselves in the position of the anti-suffragists and try to see things from their viewpoint, and this is something we need to do continually if we are going to make our cause appeal to the mass of women who do fot know of equal suffrage or who misunderstand it.

This letter is valuable also because it strikes a chord of sympathy between the anti-suffragist and the suffragist. Is there a suffragist who does not feel drawn in sympathy to this woman who is a wife and mother and is out in the world earning, and who fears equal suffrage because she thinks it will increase her burdens? In this exceedingly busy world with its manifold cares and burdens. what woman of us can blame any other who says to herself: “I already have all the responsibility I can meet. I do not know anything about politics; if I am to vote, I must understand what I am doing. I do not want any more duties, therefore I do not want to vote.”

We cannot blame her, but we do wonder that she stops there in her reasoning. All people in business occasionally find themselves too busy to eat and the busiest occasionally miss a meal simply because they are so busy. No one compels them to eat, but whether they are busy or not they do not miss many meals. Why? Because they must eat for self-preservation. Many of us have seen children so absorbed in their play that they did not want to take time to eat, or would hurry through their meals so they could have more time for play. The child does not realize that he must eat for his self-preservation. In this he is like the anti-suffragist who does not realize that she must vote for her self-protection. It is a great bother and a great expense and it takes a lot of time to eat three meals a day. But no one but the most foolhardy thinks seriously of omitting to eat because it is a burden to cat. We eat for self-preservation. No one compels us to eat.

It is very similar with voting. No one compels cither men or women to vote. They vote for self-protection, It takes a very short time once or twice a year to vote. True, it is quite a responsibility to be prepared to vote intelligently. But one does not need to set aside a great part of the year to prepare for voting; one usually learns the merits of the candidates, the pros and cons of the issues simply as a matter of course, through the daily papers, in conversation, by incidental observation. The rest of the preparation consists in a conscience and common sense.

Many elections and their results seem to indicate that both conscience and common sense were lacking. Politics determines what our laws shall be, who shall enforce them, how they shall be enforced, and it is coming to be conceded that politics lacks and needs the woman's point of view more than anything else. Suffragists believe that politics is badly in need of woman's point of view. For the good of the commonwealth they consider it their duty to take a hand in politics. They want to take a hand in politics also for their own self-protection. But if equal suffrage were granted they would not be compelled to vote; neither would the anti-suffragists be compelled to yote. The suffragists want the vote for their self-protection. If they get it, the anti-suffragists will then see that they must vote for their self-protection. But no one will be compelled to vote any more than she is compelled to eat.

Throughout this article I have been trying to be worthy of the confidence of my correspondent by seeing equal suffrage from her point of view. The best conclusion I have been able to draw, however, is that the only way to right the wrongs of the anti-suffragists is to show that their wrongs are not wrongs at all.

It was voted to authorize Miss Addams to appoint a committee to take preliminary steps for forming a federation of all the Suffrage Associations in Cook County. The registration of women is so beavy in Sacramento, Cal., that eight members of the local Woman's Counoff have been appointed deputy county registrars, to enter their names. All serve without pay.

“Everybody but ladies and vasabonds" will get the suffrage, if a bill introduced by Sir Lomer Gouin in the Parliament of Quebec goes through. The bill is described as “sweepingly revolutionary," because it would allow all male citizens, except vagabonds, to vote in Parliamentary elections.

The sreat suffrage parade in New York will be held May 4. There was some fear that there would have to be two processions, as there was a strong difference of cpinion as to whether the afternoon or the evening was the best time to march. It was feared that the working women could not get out in the day time. The parade will start at 5 P. M. Saturday, and this hour has been accepted as satisfactory by all.

The “King's Speech," which is drawn up by the Cabinet and lays out the plan of government action for the session, was read at the opening of Parliament. It contained no mention either of a woman suffrage bill or of the promised manhood suffrage bill, to which a woman suffrage amendment could be added. Instead it gave notice of a bill to amend the methods of registration—and, doubtless, to abolish plural voting. The Women's Social and Political Union announced in advance that, if the pledges made to the women were broken again, there would be a great militant demenstration, headed by Mrs. Pankhurst in person, about two weeks after the opening of Parliament.

HUMOROUS

“What is a fair-weather friend, pa?" “One who won't lend you his umbrella.'—Judge.

“He has a grudge against the plain people. “On what score?" “Says they wear so many rubbers that it forces up the price of tires.'—Louisville Courier-Journal.

Inquirer (at South Station in Boston): “Where does this train go?" Brakeman: “This train gees to New York in ten minutes." Inquirer: “Gee whiz! That's going some!"

“What is Billy Hardatit doing these days?" asked Smithers. “Oh, he's working his son's way through college," said little Binks.— Harper's Weekly.

“Tribbles said he felt like a millionaire last night." “Did he imbibe freely?" “No. He stood in front of a theatre and inhaled the fumes from sixty automobiles.'—Birmingham Age- Herald.

Miss Simpson: “Kin you cut mah initials on de ice, Mistan Johnson? Mah name's Gertrude Lisbeth Agnes May Gladys Penelope Dorothy Simpson." Mr. Johnson (dubiously): “Wall, I could do dat, Miss Simpson. but it would spoil de pond fo' skatin." —Puck.

Sunday-school Teacher: “And when the prodigal son came home, what happened, Tommy?" Tommy: “His father ran to meet him and hurt himself." Sunday-school Teacher: “Why, where did yeu get that?" Tommy: “It said his father ran and fell on his meck. I bet it would hurt you to fall on your neck!"—Judge.

Mr. Evarts told Lord Coleridge when they were at Mount Vernon the legend of Washington throwing a dollar across the Rappahannock. “But," objected Coleridge, “the Rappahannock's a broad stream." “Yes," retorted Mr. Evarts, “but a dollar went further in those days." At a dinner party this story was praised as Mr. Evarts's best. “Oh," said Mr. Evarts, modestly, “I don't say all the good things credited to me. Now what I might have said was that it was not so strange George Washington threw a dollar across a river, since he threw a sovereign across the sea.'—Philadelphia Record.

iti rel me be op ad Le is

Agnes E. Ryan.
