--- page 1 ---
THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL

o o o O

lumn not s

VYOL. XLIll NO. 9

om a m an olumn hat I

FAVORABLE REPORT GIVEN IN NEW YORK

FAVORABLE REPORT GIVEN IN NEW YORK Suffrage Measure Is Recommended By Judiclary in Both Senate and House

this he inf the vital m. I had s my antiand It olace.

After so often working in vain to get their measure reported out of committee at all, even adversely, New York women are jubilant over having secured a favorable report this year in both branches. In the Senate Committee the vote stood seven to two, Hinman and Black being the sole dissentients. There is a new spirit in the air, all along the line.

SHOW PUBLIC SPIRI

Pasadena Women Follow Up Their Garbage-incinerator Victory with Plan for Civic Study

The newly-enfranchised women of Pasadena, Cal.,, lately turned out in force and carried an election in favor of installing a city sarbage-incinerator. The Pasadena News says:

“Encouraged by the success of the recent bond election, which, it is acknowledged, was carried by the votes of the women of the city, who manifested judicious and thoughtful consideration of the subject, a movement has been started toward the formation of a woman's civics class, which will take up the discussion of questions of broader scope than those which have been embodied heretofore as a part of local club work.

s the the value the iewe gonot

“In the Woman's Civic League, a stimulus has been given many of the members to delve into questions of graver and broader import than formerly, and with the power of the bat lot entrusted into their hands, their interest in municipal affairs received an impetus that promises to carry them into the field of activity, where they may aid in carrying out their own plans and ideas. At the same time the women. have been brought into touch with subjects of national weight,"

symre a who fears dens, I alany- I am nt to

A weekly class in civics has been organized and will be addressed by Clifford Howard of Los Angeles and other speakers. Mr. Howard will begin by telling how presidential elections are conducted, and explaining the direct primary and the caucus.

there elves y beether Beseen take have t eat who tis a o eat 'sseat for

PERIER IS CONVERT

Distinguished Frenchman Says He Has Been Won to Votes for Women By His Observations in California

Claude Casimir-Perier has been visiting the Pacific coast as a special representative of the French government to study what opportunities will be afforded to French capital on the opening of the Panama canal. In an address before the Women's Civic League of Pasadena the other day, he is reported as saying:

en or very Sponneed ually ssues ersaisists

“I was not in favor of woman suf frage until I came to California, but when I saw how the women of this State regard suffrage and what good they had brought about by it, I was converted. The vote of woman is of immense value as a regulative force in society, and it will work for the amelioration of numerous social ills. I am sreatly impressed with the realization by the women of the United States of their great influence upon society. Votes for women will millitate against war, and woman is the sreatest influence in, the world for peace."

conwhat e eneeds s be- For ake a their vould comotecmust vote

In beginning his address, the distinguished Frenchman stated that it was rather daring for a man to speak on “Woman's Influence on Civilization" at all, and that in speaking he did so as an individual, not as a representative of the French government.

f the n her howagists

“There are active and passive influences at work to make for civiliza (Concluded on Page 87)

fficial Organ of the National American Woman Suffrage Association

RHODE ISLAND AMAZED

. 270 wee y Courtesy of the R. 1. Sunrage Association

SUFFRAGE BALL HAS UNIQUE FEATURE! Novel Combimation of Suffrage an Fun in Dance Program

Novel Combination of Suffrage and Fun in Dance Program A leap year dance and cotillion, with yellow Votes for Women butterflies as favors, is the unique form of entertainment devised by the suffragists of Minneapolis. Last week the 1915 Suffrage Club gave a suffrage ball, and by their resourcefulness in naming the numbers on the program, have made themselves the envy of all society folk. It read as follows:

1. Grand Marche Militante, “Susan B. Anthony." 2. Waltz, “Conversazione a la Suffrage." 3. Two-step, “To Man— Woman's Equal." 4. Waltz, In Memoriam Brothers Bok and Kipling. 5. Circle two-step, “Woman's Sphere." 6. Waltz, "Why Is an Anti?" 7. Two-step, “Suffragette Spiel." 8. Waltz, “Will the Firesides Go Round?" 9. Two-step, “Ballct Ballet." 10. Waltz, “No-Vote-No-Tax." 11. Two-step, “Pankhurst Prance." 12. Waltz, “California Glide." 13. The Boston, “Woman's Journal." 14. Two-step, Meet Me at the Polls." 15. Asquith Razzle-dazzle. 6. Home, Sweet Home, “To Our Suffragents,"

Forbes Robertson has been speaking in Minneapolis for suffrage, and a luncheon was given in his honor last week. The 1915 Suffrage Club has engaged a booth for the Automobile Show, and this will be made an opportunity for getting suffrage petitions signed, for selling suffrage buttons and literature, and using every resource for propaganda. The 1915 Club is a suffrage club of

BOSTON, SATURDAY, MARCH 2, 1912

young professional women who meet a month at dinner, and are now launched on a publicity campaign for the cause. They are pledged to work for the ballot in 1915 (the first possible moment in Minnesota). The members are all young lawyers, doctors, newspaper women, probation officers and settlement workers, etc. The president, Dr. Mabel Ulrich, is a very beautiful and prominent woman, a specialist in children's diseases, and with two lovely children of her own. She was a member of the recent Minneapolis Vice Commission, whose report has been widely noticed. Her husband is a prominent physician and a strong suffragist, who brings the woman question into all the frequent addresses that he makes before men's clubs. Dr. Ulrich carried a yellow silk banner, “Votes for Women in 1915," in the grand march.

The list of patronesses at the ball included very prominent Twin City women, such as Mrs. A. H. Bright, Mrs. Andreas Ueland, Mrs. E. G. Walton, Mrs. Marion P. Shutter, Mrs. Ernest A. Woodward, Mrs. S. A. Stockwell, Honorary President Minnesota W. S. A., Mrs. A. T. Hall, State President, Mrs. George F. James. We got our favors from New York, as advertised in The Woman's Journal. There were about 150 guests. Anne Herendeen.

As The Woman's Journal goes to press, the eight federated Suffrage Societies of New York City are holding a big meeting to raise funds to help the Wisconsin campaign, with Rev. Anna H. Shaw presiding, and addresses by Mrs. Crystal Eastman Benedict, Finley Peter Dunne, Samuel Untermyer, Dorothy Dix and Mas EBastman.

DARTMOUTH MEN WORK FOR EQUAL SUFFRAGE College Is to Hear Anna Shaw—Big Meeting Expected—The Public Invited

The Dartmouth Men's League for woman suffrage is to have the Rev. Anna H. Shaw, President of the National Suffrage Association, speak at Dartmouth College on the evening of March 8. A notice of the meeting has been sent to the local papers, and the League hopes that all who read the notice will consider it a personal invitation to be present The meeting is open to the public.

A HOT TIME IN OHIO

Antis Make Friends for the Suffragists—Big Crowd Hears Dr. Stanton Colit

The fine vote of twenty to one for woman suffrage in the Suffrage Committee of the Constitutional Convention was not secured without a fight. Stirred up by the New York Antis about a score of Columbus women asked for a hearing to oppose equal suffrage. An Ohio woman writes in a private letter:

“They had no arguments at all. One of them said that they were in favor of restricted suffrage. When the committee asked who should not have it, they said first, The working people, and then quickly added, The working people of foreign extraction. This made the labor men on the committee indignant, and we have now more friends than we had before, for these rather indifferent friends are now fighting for us. As soon as the (Concluded on Page 67)

THINK MORE OF ETHICS

Dr. Hugh K. Walker Says Woman Suffrage in California Has Made Politicians Consider Moral Quality of Their Acts—is Raising the Standard

Dr. Hugh K. Walker has lately accepted a call to be pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Atlanta, Ga., and has gone to that city from Los Angeles, where he had been preaching for fourteen years, and had built up a church of 2,300 communicants. He was president of the Board of Trustees of the Occidental College, president of the State Anti-Saloon League, and influential in many other ways- In an interview in the Atlanta Journal, Dr. Walker says:

“So far, the suffrage of women has made California politicians think considerably more of the ethics of their actions, and if the women maintain their present attitude, a high political standard will be reached. “The bugaboo against their vote was that the good wemen would stay away from the polls, while the bad would flock to the ballot box. It hasn't been that way. The bad women do not want to give away their real names and addresses, and the good ones have taken a sane and active interest in political questions."

MRS. CATT AND DR. JACOBS HOLD MEETING AT SEA

They Preach Suffrage to Their Fellow Passengers on the Way to Ceylon— Much interest Aroused.

Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, in a personal letter just received, says:

“We are now en route from Egypt to Ceylon, on a beautiful, big, perfectly conducted Dutch ship, the namesake of the baby queen, Princess Juliana. The passengers are nearly all young married people en route for Java, where they will live.

“A petition from the passengers was presented to Dr. Aletta Jacobs requesting a lecture on woman suffrage. She gave it, nearly all the first and second class passengers being present. There were so many who wanted to ask questions that the audience gathered the next day, and she devoted an hour to answering them. Then those who could understand English requested a speech from me, so the nmext day I spoke. It is needless to say that woman suffrage is the chief topic of conversation.

“This trip is a wonderful experience. We are well. Our party is now reduced to two. We are now going to do India. This letter will be mailed at Colombo. “The Woman's Journal has a fine campaign spirit in it, which does my soul good. It sounds like victory.”

Even the Chinese now have a republic, but American women are still considered unequal to self-government.

As many women as men have registered to vote at the coming election in Seattle, although men in the State of Washington sreatly outnumber women.

Jane Addams is passing a few weeks in Augusta, Ga., preparing her series of articles in McClure's on the white slave traffic for publication in book form. She writes that she is greatly enjoying the delicious climate.

The South has been regarded as the stronghold of conservatism on the woman question, but while Mrs. Pankhurst was refused permission to speak at Harvard, her daughter, Sylvia, now in the South, is being overwhelmed with invitations to address colleges, universities and seminaries.

--- page 2 ---
66

VOTES FOR WOMEN

By Lucy S. Weaver (To the tune of Dixie) California les in the solden West, Where men and women are most blest, Iin the land! In the land! In the land! In the land! And with Washington and Colorado, Wyoming, Utah and Idaho, All are free! All are free! All are free! All are free! Chorus

Chorus But we're marching on to vict'ry, We are! We are! In North and South and East and West, We'll win our way to vict'ry, Wwe'll win! We'll win! We'll win our way to vict'ry, We'll win! We'll win! We'll win our way to vict'ry. From away up North clear down to Texas,

Chorus

r We all proclaim from a sreat high steeple, Men and women both are “people" of the land! Of the land! oOf the land! oOf the land! And we're going to fight with all our might, Till for all women we will win the right To a vote! To a vote! To a vote" To a vote! Chorus

Chorus Some men want women on a “pedestal, But on he earth we have to dwell, Helping you! Helping you! Helping you! Helping you! So lend us a hand to win the vote, As we the burdens help to “tote," Help us win! Help us win! Help us win! Help us win! Chorus

Now as a “toast" throughout the nation, For men and women of creation, Equal Rights! Equal Rights! Equal Rights! Equal Rights Such as the Almighty o'er us Meant as a protection for us, O'er the land! O'er the land! O'er the land! O'er the land! Chorus

Chorus Yes, we're marching, etc.

AN ALLEGORY

By G. W. Carrick

The Angel of Justice sat watching the stream of people approach the bridge, Pons Politicus. Men and women walking together on the High Road of Life separated at the bridge, the men to cross and. continue on their way to the Town of Industry, the women to enter the Woods of Domesticity, through which ran a winding path leading to a ford in the river. Crossing on stepping-stones, then climbing the bank, they finally regained the road to town, and once more walked beside the men.

“Why do the women walk so far out of their way? The bridge lies in front of them, yet they cross the river by the ancient ford."' The Angel of Justice addressed an Historian strolling by. “It is not the custom, and what is contrary to custom is wrons, you know." “But I see a bridge in the distance; did not the women as well as the men cross that?"

“Pons Scholasticus, you mean. Yes, they have used it for half a century or more, ever since the right was gained for them by advanced thinkers, both men and women, after years and years of struggle against prejudice and fear."

“Yes. It was feared lest the pleasure and excitement in crossing the River of Knowledge would entice our women from the Woods of Domestichty, but you see yonder how meekly they go.” “I see, but do not understand. Why do they so meekly choose the longer way to town? So few linger in the beautiful seclusion of the forest, yet all go that way." “History explains this. In the beginning, the king and his nobles owned the bridge, the king by divine right, and the nobles by his royal permis-

THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL, MARCH 2, 1912

f

sion. It was by flerce fighting, lasting for centuries, that the commoner sained his right to use it; and during these combats the women were sheltered in the wood, until srew up the custom for men to strussle in the open and for the women to bear, rear and succor in seclusion. And this is surely in accordance with the Divine plan, this division of labor between men and women, is it not?" “If that is the Divine plan, why do so many women hurry through the wood to the Town of Industry, reaching there long after the men who keep to the straight road and bridge? Why do they have to go to town?"

The Historian never waited to answer; but an Economist, hearing the Angel's question, paused to explain. “The women are following their work," he said simply. “No longer is women's work performed in the wood; everything is done in the Town of Industry, and all who cannot afford the enforced idleness of the wood are driven by starvation to seek work in town." “Would not the women have a better chance of finding work if they were not delayed by going round by the ford?"

“Yes, but you know they usually take the jobs the men do not want. the poorest paid ones. By arriving late, of course, they are limited in their choice." “Then why do not they take the shortest and quickest way?" “Those who need most to use the bridge are too busy to strive for the privilege—" “Privilege?"

“Their right, then. And the women confined in the narrow strip of woodland are not going to strugsle for what will add neither to their comfort nor to their pleasure. And surely the men, already overburdened by the care of themselves and the loiterers in the wood, are not going to urge the removal of any handicap on women who compete with them in town! Here comes Minerva, in cap and gown; ask her why she so longingly gazed upon the short road, yet made no effort to take it."

The Angel called to Minerva to stop, and asked, “What keeps you from trying to use Pons Politicus?"

Minerva smiled sadly. “I believe in the theory, but doubt the expediency of women crossings. Too many cross the bridge already. I believe in restriction, some educational or property qualification. I have studied much on the subject, and am not like my heedless little sister who is now joyously tripping into the wood, too modest to look toward Pons Politicus and too loyal to doubt the chivalry of her Knights, who she fancies are still fighting on this bridge for her and her interests. Nor do I fear the dirt and filth, for I know that they are to be found on the High Road of Life as well as on the Bridge. But, having studied bridge construction, I know that Pons Politicus could not stand the strain doubled."

“Cannot your bridge be repaired Why have one that serves but half the people? Are there no bridge-builders. that you should cherish rotten timber so tenderly?"

“It is nmot the bridge I am considering, but the convenience of the men who could not cross because of congestion, or because of a total collapse of the structure. Would you have me, trained for centuries to consider every wish of the men, trained to selfsacrifice as naturally as the tree grows upward, suddenly demand my covenience at the peril of theirs? On, dear. look at these women! Let me run before they recognize me!" And Minerva fled at the approach of a string of women advancing with locked arms.

“Let us cross the bridge!" they called; and no sooner had the words been uttered than men and boys seemed to spring from the very sround to bar the way, to hoot and jeer, to throw stones, revile and curse. The women, strusslins, panting, screaming, pushed and were pushed until finally they were driven back. The Angel heard one say as they retired, “How easily we could cross but for the chivalry' of men!"

“Minerva is willing to sacrifice her comfort and convenience for men; these women are willing to sacrifice everything, even their “ladyhood, which is dearer than life itself, to fight as men fought, so that they, their sis-

ters and unborn generations can cross Pons Politicus as naturally as they now cross Pons Scholasticus! But what is this I hear?" and, turnins, the Angel of Justice saw a Politician haranguing from the tail end of a cart. “We must protect our women!" he shouted. “Think of the evil influences, the sordid contamination, the filth of the bridge! We must guard their charm, their modesty, their innocence, the sacredness of our homes, and, sreatest of all, the chivalry of our manhood!"

As he withdrew, the Ansel called him and asked what objection he could have to the women using the direct approach to town.

“We don't want any women around!" he snarled. “Always walking from side to side of the bridge. How can we tell on which side they'll walk out? 1f we could make them walk on our side—but don't you believe it, they'll walk as they please. And some of them will be imitating the confounded Reformers, and peering over the rail and calling, Rotten, rotten, the bridge is rotten!" No, no, we'll have no women, thank you!"

Almost before he ceased speakins, a Philanthropist, excited and distressed, with a paper in her hand, rushed up to a man about to cross the bridge. “Take this—oh, please take this to the town! I have to go round by the ford, you know, and shall be too late. Please! No? Then you—" and she turned to the next man, who said, courteously enough: “Madam, I have a paper of my own

“Isn't there anyone here who will help to save the lives of young sgirls and children by carrying this warning to town? I cannot get there in time. Ah, me, where is my influence? Won't you take this? Won't you?" Man after man refused; then, realizing the futility of further delay, she desperately started on the long journey through the woods across the ford. “Ah, me! Ah, me!" sighed the Angel, rising. “I must seek my sister, the Angel of Patience."

CONCERNING WOMEN

Miss Zona Gale is visiting Pasadena, Cal., and is much interested by her observations of women's civic work there.

Mrs. Florence Kelley is contributing to the Twentieth Century Magazine an important series of articles on “Standards of Labor."

Miss Sylvia Pankhurst is much interested in the Wisconsin campaign. During her stay in Milwaukee, she went about with Miss Martha C. Heide, addressing many trade unions, Miss Heide speaking in German whenever requested. Miss Pankhurst has nmow gone South, and lately addressed 2,000 people in Nashville, Tenn.

Mrs. Catherine Waugh McCulloch's recent article in the Chicago Legal News, giving the laws of the different States relating to the guardianship of children, has been republished as a pamphlet, and may be ordered from the Illinois Equal Suffrage Association, 938 Fine Arts Buildins, Chicago. Price four cents a copy or 50 copies for $1.

Mrs. Stephen Radford, Jr., save an address on equal suffrage recently before the Twentieth Century Club of Oshkosh, one of the largest women's clubs in Wisconsin. The Daily Northwestern says, “She astonished and delighted her audience by the breadth and scope of her information, as well as by the unassuming manner of its presentation." Mrs. Hooper, the club's president, is an active worker for the ballot.

Mrs. Allura Collins Hollister writes of the Wisconsin campaign: “It is marvelous how our press publishes every little suffrage item these days. I recently saw three Milwaukee daily papers, and each had some suffrage item. It seems as if every week adds some desirable worker to the suffrage forces. Mrs. T. W. Youmans, one of the editors of the Waukesha Freeman, is a new and most efficient worker. Whatever she champions, she does with all her might, and woman suffrage is mo exception. Every week sees a fine array of suffrage items and

articles in her paper. Dr. Gwendolen Willis of Milwaukee-Downer College, who lately spoke on suffrage there, is the young daughter of Rev. Olympia Brown, and a wonderfully bright youns lady. I grow more hopeful of results each week."

Rev. Antoinette L. B. Blackwell, D.D., the first woman to be ordained a minister, and now the sole survivor of the speakers at the First National Woman's Rights Convention, has salled with her youngest daughter for Panama and a month's trip in the West Indies. Mrs. Blackwell is in her $8th year, but in good health, and as fond of travel as a girl. At 78 she went to Palestine, unaccompanied by any member of her family, and brought back a bettle of water from the Jordan to baptize her grandsons.

Dr. Cora Smith Eaton of Seattle has lately married Judson Kins, secretary of the National Referendum League. They first met, it is said, at a referendum dinner arranged by Dr. Powers at the request of Prof. Charles Zueblin for Sydney Webb and Beatrice Webb. Mr. King was down for a speech, but he got so interested in talking with Dr. Eaten at the foot of the stairs leading up to the banquetting room that he forgot all about it, and when his turn came he could not be found and his address had to be omitted. The couple will make their home in Seattle. We wish them much happinmess.

Miss Mabel Gillespie, secretary of the Woman's Trade Union League, 7 Warrenton street, Boston, will be slad to receive contributions for relief work among the Lawrence strikers. Prof. Emily Greene Balch of Wellesley College writes: “Any one willing to make the ordeal of these days of hardship less dreadful for hungry men and for mothers who must be fed if they are to feed their little babies, is earnestly urged to send help, much or little. One contributor sent ten cents, saying, It will buy two loaves of bread, anyway. I hope it was one of those loaves that was eaten while I was in the office by an applicant too far gsene with hunger to wait till outside the door to eat his dry, uncut loaf."

WOMAN SUFFRAGE PARTY OF NEW YORK BUSY

New York sStatesmen Give Th Views on Suffrage

The third and last of the Legislative Meetings in the Broadway Theatre was held on Feb. 23. Three Senators, Bayne, Stillwell, and Griffen, and three Assemblymen, Brooks, Colne, and Kennedy, had signified their willingness to talk for woman suffrage “if nothing prevented." Two of the six, Senator Bayne and Assemblyman Kennedy, actually came, but the good faith of the women still persists in thinking that the absence of the others was unavoidable. Senator James H. Duhamel was on hand, too; he is one on whom the New York women have learned to rely, as he has been most helpful and attentive always to all our representatives at Albany.

Senator Bayne offered congratulations to the suffrage leaders for their political acumen and skill, and said that he had no doubt left that they understood their business. He deplored the ultra commercialism of politics, and the lack of devotion to public duty, and quoted his own remark after the last legislative hearing, as made to a friend: “The question is not, Shall we give votes to women? but, Can we possibly live without their help?" He predicted that in two years one of the majority parties would make woman suffrage an issue in New York State.

Mr. Kennedy spoke with earnestness and sincerity. He promised to sive all the help he could, and to try to have the Assembly Judiciary Committee discharged from further consideration of the suffrage bill if it failed to report.

Senator Duhamel eulogized the West, where the initiative, the referendum, the recall, and woman suffrage may be found; “and the political party that goes back on these," he said, “is lost"—a statement that won much applause. John S. Crosby ursed the women to perfect their organization, as the best way to win, speaking in his usual charming and sgraceful

way. Miss Mills, of the New York State Association, save a fmme talk. An excellent collection was taken up, and many pledged to march in the parade of May 4. There was a large audience and plenty of enthusiasm. Mrs. Margaret Chanler Aldrich presided. S.

HOW TO WIN KANSAS

eading Women of the State Give Arguments at Brilliant Banquet The Kansas City Star says:

“At the Hotel Grund in Kansas City, Kas.,, when the Wyandotte County Equal Suffrage Association gave a luncheon and reception to the officers of the State organization of suffragists, women speakers—the wives of the prominent men of Kansas—addressed more than two hundred women. And the two hundred heard the addresses with enthusiasm, for they intend to use the arguments heard in convincing the male veters of Kansas to give them the ballot. They mean to debate in public and to carry the arguments into the homes.

Mrs. W. A. White First Speaker

“Mrs. Willlam Allen White spoke first. ““Women will do jury service sladly,' she said. I believe every jury case where a woman or a child is involved should have women on the jury. If the men insist, we will serve on all cases and we will decide them fairly and justly, too; but I believe the men should call us for service only on cases of that kind. Let every woman make a study of court procedure, and the men will favor our becoming jurors when it is necessary.

“Military service? Every man opposed to women voting uses that argument. History will teach them that woman has done as much to win wars by staying at home looking after things, keeping the pot boiling, and fighting battles that would frighten almost any man, as the men who marched out with bands playing and flags flying. Roosevelt's Name Cheered

“That the wemen already are taking an interest in politics was shown when Mrs. Helen N. Ess of Kansas City mentioned the name of Theodore Roosevelt. The women cheered so that the speaker was forced to wait until the demonstration had subsided. Mrs. Ess brought in the name in a friendly criticism of Roosevelt's recent article on woman suffrage."

Mrs. L. A. Thurston writes

Mrs. L. A. Thurston writes

“Two hundred and twenty-five women were seated at the tables, bright, earnest, cultured women, representing much of the best in Kansas life. We were not lacking in representatives of official pesition, for there were the wife of the present Governor, Mrs. Stubbs, who, beneath a pleasins, placid exterior, which would at once disarm all suspicion of strongmindedmess, carries the wisdom of the serpent with the apparent harmlessness of the dove to win votes for the suffrage amendment; the wife of Chief Justice Johnston, herself the able leader of the State Association; Mrs. Strons, wife of the Chancellor of the State University, to whom the influence of the ballct on the home makes its strongest appeal; Mrs. St. John, wife of our well-known Ex-Governor, who has been a suffragist for these many years. I remember hearing her say, long ago, 'When I was a little girl, I was almost indignant that mammy did not go to vote as well as pappy, and could see no reason why she shouldn't. Happy is a woman of that stamp who has spent her married life with a husband who could not see the reason for it, either! There were the wives of men prominent in various walks of life, and women who have made good themselves, not only in the womanly sphere of home, as wife and mother, but in the professional and business world as well. I recall one attorney, one physician, one abstracter of titles, some writers of stories, and women to whom philanthropic work has become second nature; five State officers; Mrs. Johnston, Mrs. Stubbs, Miss Eacker, well known for her work along educational lines, having been a successful county superintendent of schools for years; Mrs. White, the well-known wife of the author of ‘A Certain Rich Man, who must count himself rich in her companionship; and myself. Others present were the president of Second District E. S. A.,

tr. si bu le me tr. it Wi 1 SW wi ly- H on be I

un off ca Un sh ha m M th wi vo to

--- page 3 ---
Weren't TheyDelicious? Educator Wafers, buttered as you would butter bread. Of coure you've wried them. But I bake another Educator Cracker, which I'm sure you'll enjoy just as much. It has that rich, sweet, nut-like flavor peculiar to all EDUCATOR CRACKERS

h is called the Toastorette—already butteit t o at nd toed ete roTal e, to, t al—ith the whole wheat flour freshly wound by real old-fashioned mill stones. And each day's baking I personall to make sure that is just why, Educator Toasterettes are so ? aciglydifere fro amy other o tat them once yoursel o from us. send 10 cents In stamps for arge trisl box, please mention your grocer's nae. JOHNSON EDUCATOR FOOD CO. 24 Batterymarch St., Boston, Mass.

Mrs. Chalkley, who would not do credit to her kin if she were other than what she is, a forceful worker in the vineyard, for she is a niece of Olympia Brown Willis; Miss Hoffman, ex-president of the State E. S. A., and the present superintendent of press work for the Association. She is a perfect dynamo, and her energy for the present year is being used to roll the suffrage ball. There were county officers in numbers there, and to help us by their encouragement, a group of women from our sister city, Kansas City, Mo., alert, brilliant and enthusiastic.

km as re s0 it d. a

“It certainly was woman's day. There were those who were born suffragists, those who have become suffragists, and some who by their association with so much enthusiasm will certainly have suffrage thrust upon them later. One family was represented by three senerations, Mrs. Rose, the witty toastmistress of the occasion; her mother, and her own daughter, a young university student.

“I can't tell you what a pleasant day we had. Of course the speaking was all to the point of votes for women, and if there were any there who were lukewarm in the morning, they certainly must have absorbed considerable suffrage sentiment during the day.

“The little lady who met us at the train had been up all night with a sick baby, but her bright eyes and busy fingers gave no sign. And now, lest you might think that baby was neglected, I want to tell you that a trained nurse was called in to care for it during the day, and, as the father was taking us to the train in his car, 1 asked him how baby was. He answered, 'I drove out home a little while ago to see, and he is doing nicely—better than he was this mornins. He's a fine boy, I tell you!" That is one type of father and mother that believe in equal suffrage."

INDIANA WOMEN CAST A LARGE STRAW VOTHE

Equal Suffrage Is Also Advocated Be fore the Bar Association—A New Spirit Stirring

As already mentioned in our columns, the Indianapolis Star has offered its women readers a chance to cast a straw vote for President of the United States. Much interest is being shown, and more than 15,000 women have manifested their preferences, most of them being for Roosevelt. Mrs. Antoinette D. Leach writes us that this is proving “a sreat Statewide education." She says women are voting who thought they did not want to vote, and whose husbands were

THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL, MARCH 2, 1912

sure they never would vote, and “great enthusiasm is being manifested all around." The Star calls this contest its “presidential preference primary." Mrs. Leach adds:

“We had a sreat celebration of Susan B. Anthony Day here, and a large crowd of very interested women. I feel very much encouraged about Indiana. Not only that, but at a recent meeting of the Indianapolis Bar Association Hon. William Dudley Foulke of Richmond, Ind., was the chief speaker, and he spoke on the revision of the present constitution. He advocated a change—but in the regular way, not in the Marshall style—and said that 'there were many changes needed, viz.: in the criminal code, in the corporation law, and last, but not least, we must have votes for women. When Bar Associations take the matter up, there will be something worth while."

A GERMAN HOUSEWIFE ON CITY HOUSEKEEPING

Pioneer's Daughter Champlions Votes for Women

A former president of the Consumers' League of Wisconsin, Mrs. B. C. Gudden of Oshkosh, has replied to the recent declaration of the German- American Alliance against votes for women. Her answer was written at the request of the Political Equality League of Wisconsin, and a very good answer it is. Mrs. Gudden says, in part:

“Louis XIV forecast the French revolution in his dictum, I am the state. The German alllance places itself in the same position in its opposition to woman's suffrage, and will doubtless be overtaken by the same revolution. “As a German by birth and education, and as the daughter-in-law of a broad-minded pioneer who left the fatherland in 1848 in search of liberty and representation, I cannot understand the narrow view of less progressive pioneers who deny to women the civic rights they themselves fought and suffered for.

“German women have always been considered ideal home-makers and housewives. Possibly if they look upon suffrage from the broader responsible standpoint of municipal housekeeping, those who have hesitated may enroll in the vanguard of voman suffrage for Wisconsin."

A HOT TIME IN OHIO (Concluded from Page 65)

hearing was over, the committee went into session and voted out the amendment twenty to one.

“When the Antis saw that their efforts were of no avail, they changed their tactics and advertised a public meeting. We all went. The leader was a Cleveland woman, Mrs. Gundry. She began by saying that she could make her own hats and clothes, and could support herself if she had to. It was a foolish talk. She pointed out all the weaknesses of women, and I was horrified that any woman could so berate her own sex. There were about three hundred present, more than half of them suffragists.

“The next day sreat numbers of people flocked to the Columbus Suffrage Headquarters and joined us— like Mrs. Ex-Gov. Campbell and other influential women.

“That afternoon, Stanton Coit lectured at Columbus Library Hall, with Dr. Washington Gladden presiding, and there was such a crowd that several hundred could not get in, and they had an overflow meeting, addessed by Mrs. Harriet Taylor Upton. She told the audience what Mrs. Gundry had said about making her own clothes, and went on: “I once knew a man who made his own trousers,' and she told what kind of trousers they were, and added, 'but no one ever thought he ought not to vote because he made his own apparel. This struck the audience as sensible, and they gave good attention. The Antis, not expecting a crowd, came late, could not get into the hall, and were all in the overflow meeting, listening to Mrs. Upton.

“The Columbus ladies secured a lot of new members, and many men have given their names for a Men's League. Mr. Jaros was made secretary. “We still have a majority of the Constitutional Convention for us. Fortunately, the convention is not

composed of politicians, but of farmers, labor men, and college professors, with lawyers and business men. They will be harder to corrupt." Another Ohio friend, Jeannette Eaton, writes

“Interest in the question is now in Ohio rising to a high pitch. As everyone now knows, the Suffrage Committee reported twenty to one in favor of suffrage. But not cnly has this success roused widespread enthusiasm, but quite as much has feeling been stirred by the formation of the Anti- Suffrage party, unknown here and even undreamed by its present leaders, until last week." She says of Dr. Coit's meeting:

“A thousand people were present. Many had to be gathered into an overflow meeting, at which the Antis were laid away forever in the Lethal chamber, withered and scorched beyond recognition by the burning arguments hurled at them. There has never been a more wide-spread interest amonsg the women of Columbus than has now been aroused for this cause. The opposition of the Antis has created a political issue, has sreatly increased our earnest sympathizers, and has given the whele movement immense publicity and impetus."

PERIER A CONVERT

(Cencluded from Page 65)

tion, he said. “Women's sreatest work in behalf of the advancement of civilization is their opposition to war. The Sabine women rushing in between their army and the Romans is the classical example of women put ting an end to war.

“Now, when the armies lie perhaps ten kilometers apart and shoot at one another, it would be a waste of time for the women to walk back and forth between the two armies; their influence is less direct, but none the less powerful. Women by their votes will work against war; women by their influence in the home work against it, have worked asgainst it from the beginning; and when war does come, by their service in the field as nurses, they do much to minimize its horrors.

“All the werld over women are similar; women living in different countries are more alike in their attitude towards life than a man and a woman living in the same country. In Europe, where a journey of a few hundred miles takes one into a land where an entirely different language is spoken and an entirely different civilization prevails, the men are. different, but the women are all working for the influence of the heme and fighting against war. Their work may appear different, but at bottom it is the same.

“English women are working for the vote, and whether or not they are adopting the best means of attaining their end, I firmly believe that, if they should gain it, England would be greatly benefited by the change. Their vote would benefit British society in a vast number of ways. Ensland would do well to look to Norway, where the terrible curse of drink has been made a thing of the past by the enfranchisement of women." Mr. Casimer Perier expects to return to California next year to take personal charge of the develcpment of French trade and interests.

GOSSIP AND GLEANINGS

Twenty-five news-stands in Cleveland, O., had The Woman's Journal on sale last week. The play, “Her Great Match," lately given by the Massachusetts W. S. A., cleared about $1,200.

The sreat Suffrage Bazar in Philadelphia is in progress as The Woman's Journal goes to press. It promised to be a brilliant success.

Our readers will be pleased this week to see another Headquarters Letter from Mrs. Dennett. Her report of the great demand for suffrage literature is most encouraging.

L. C. Schmidt has just been arraigned in Columbus, O., for killing Amos Joiner. According to Schmidt, they had quarrelled about woman suffrage, in which Joiner believed and Schmidt did not. Suffrage is evident-

ly a burning question in Ohio, and this opponent, seemingly, was worsted in argument, since he resorted to shooting. Mr. Witter Bynner lately visited Princeton and laid the foundations of ancther Men's League for Woman Suffrage. He is an indefatigable organizer of college and university men in behalf of votes for women. WHAT TO DO AND WHAT OTHERS ARE DOING

The following letter came from the Illinois Suffrage Association under date of Feb. 17:

“You will be horrified, 1 am sure, to find that we are again pretty low on the subscription blanks. We sent out, you will remember, two to our full list, which was something like six hundred, and ten to each of the suffrage clubs. We are having, as you know, some responses, and if you are willing to send us plenty of blanks and a sample copy whenever we have an application for suffrage literature, it may bring some returns.

“I wonder if you could send us a supply of the little leaflets or subscniption blanks on one side and Victory through You' on the other; also some of the blanks of 'What to Do and How' with a subscription blank at the bottom of the page. We will take as many of these as you can spare." We are not horrified but delighted over the contents of this letter. We only wish that every active State in the Union would stand by The Journal in this splendid way.

Under date of Feb. 17 the following letter from Cleveland, O., was received in The Journal office:

“I am having the Cleveland News Company send for a number of papers. We hope to have suffrage literature on sale in twenty-five places in the city next Saturday. We are having an advertisement made after the style of our usher's badge. I will send you a copy later, but the thought came to me that you might be able to boost The Journal decidedly if to your agents you would occasionally send the cartoon on the front page. Just take the cartoon and print it on a sheet of light-weight paper with simple statement, 'Woman's Journal, National Suffrage News, five cents, and send it out to be stuck on the windows. Twenty-five of those this Friday would help our story wonderfully; our dealers will use such in their windows."

A list of nine new subscriptions has just come in from Grand Rapids, Mich. Among them are the president of the Children's Home; the editor and publisher of “The Times"; the wife of the Representative who imtroduced a marriage bill into Congress, and the chairman of the Medical Milk Commission. The woman who sends these subscriptions writes: “My subscribers are all delighted with The Woman's Journal. I am confident a Journal subscription is the best possible way of making and encouraging workers."

As the list contains such a large percentage of influential people and as they all like The Journal, the

THE NEXT BEST THING.

Resourcefulness Counts Immensely for Votes for Women and Often Makes Up for Courage and Wealth

When the typical suffragist of today finds that she cannot help on the cause in the best way or the way in which others help it, she does not lose courage, but she begins to cast about to see what she can do. When she can't do the best thing for the cause, she decides to do the next best thins. For instance, three suffragists were asked to sell Journals on the street some time ago. They all said they could not do it. One works Saturday afternoons. Ancther has not the courage. The third has not sufficiently good health. Not one of them has ever joined the newsy corps for selling papers on the streets on Saturday afternoons. But they have all done something, each in her own way, to encourage the street sales of The Journal. For instance, one of the three invited the whole corps to her home for tea after selling hours one Saturday afternoon. Another came along last Saturday at four o'clock and invited the newsies to hot chocolate. The third offers herself for

cause and the paper benefit splendidly by the efforts of one suffragist. One way of winning is to get all the influential people acquainted with the merits of equal suffrage.

Nora Perkins Jeanson of Wisconsin is doing unique work for The Woman's Journal. She writes that her experience in selling The Woman's Journal on the trains is really worth while. She is lecturing throughout the State and avails herself of every opportunity to sell Journals. She writes: “I hold meetings on trains, get five, six or seven in the end of a train and take up the subject of human rights. As soon as the boating season opens I am going to make a suffrage tour' in our launch, “The Juanita, and hope to have some of the Illinois women accompany me."

A Kentucky woman writes The Journal as follows: “If you have any old or extra papers on hand that you would like distributed I can do so for you, as I am a teacher. I will do so freely, gladly!”

Mrs. Ethel Sparks of Mackinaw, 1ll, was the first person to respond to the appeal of the mimois state Association for two new yearly subscriptions to The Woman's Journal. Our readers will remember that the Illinois State Association has started a campalign to double the subscriptions to The Woman's Journal in their State. Their plan was to send a letter to each subscriber asking her to get two more subscribers and sending her two subscription blanks; and send a letter of appeal to each league president and ten subscription blanks asking her to get ten new local subscribers. Other Ilknois women are responding, but Mrs. Sparks has the honor of being the very first.

An Ohio woman writes as follows: “Dear Girls: I am sending my Journals out as fast as they come in and enclosing a subscription blank and “What to Do" leaflets, but now I am entirely out of them. Can you send me some more? .. . I am interested in your cash offer for suffragists—for the more people we can get to read a copy of The Journal the more subscribers you will have. I will be glad to have anything you can send me for distribution, and let me know of any plans you have that will help our country women to help you."

A Massachusetts woman has evidently been moved by our exhortaticns to sell The Journal on the streets and to get new subscriptions. for she writes us as follows: “Enclosed please find check for $2, $1 is to pay for my Journal and $1 is for contribution toward running expenses of The Journal. As I cannot sell papers on the streets or take active part in circulation plans please accept my mite in this way."

It is fine to know suffragists are feeling that they must do something for The Journal and the Cause. What if every reader of The Journal should be moved to do one of these three things: Sell Journals on the streets; take an active part in the circulation plans, or contribute $1 for running expenses

sy service at any evening meetings when she is free.

These are all small matters, but they dfive encouragement, and they show interest, originality and re sourcefulness. They show that where there is a will there is a way, and they furnish an inspiration to others who want to help. Everything counts large in pioneer work. The accumulation of small things shows which way the wind is blowing. The most important thing, of course, is to care deeply; and while this suffragist and that is casting about for her way of helping, who knows but that the very best way will be discovered?

The sun is getting warmer, the days are getting longer, and the weekly sales are increasing! Those who feared to risk the rigors of street sales in freezing weather may plan to start the work soon. Send for instructions on How to Begin. It makes good reading for a suffragist, and cannot fail to appeal to the enterprising'

67

--- page 4 ---
68

H WOMANS JOURNA

LUCY STONE and HENRY B. BLACKWELL A Weekly Newspaper Devoted to Winning Equal Rights and especially to Winning Equal Suffrage for Women. E ditor MISS ALICE STONE BLACKWELL 3 MONADNOCK STREET, DORCHESTER, MASS Conuibuting Editors MISS MARY JORNSTON MRS. IDA H. HARPER MISS ELLIS. MEREDITH REV. CAROLINE BARTLETT CRANE MRS. MABEL CRAFT DEERING

Office - 585 Boylston Street, Boston, Mass. Telephone, Back Bay 4717 NEW YORK office: National Suffrage Headquarters, 505 Fifth Ave. NATIONAL AMERICAN WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION

505 Fifth Avenue, New York City. ANNA HOWARD SHAW, President, Moylan, Pa. JANE ADDAMS, 1st Vice-President, Hull House, Chicago, Ills. SOPHONISBA P. BRECKINRIDGE, 2nd Vice-President, Green Hall, University of Chicago, Ills. MARY WARE DENNETT, Corresponding Secretary. 505 Fifth Avenue, New York. SUSAN W. FITZGERALD, Recording Secretary, 555 Boylston Street, Boston, Mass. JESSIE ASHLEY, Treasurer, 505 Fifth Avenue, New York. HARRIET BURTON LAIDLAW, 2nd Auditor, 6 East 66th Street, New York. ALICE STONE BLACKWELL, Editor of “The Woman's Journal, Monadnock Street, Dorchester. Mass. ——————o SATURDAY, MARCH 2, 1912

SATURDAY, MARCH 2, 1912

— Entered at the post-office, Boston, Massachusents, as second class maner SUBSCRIPTION One Year . . . $1.00 Six Months . . 50 Domesti Four Months on Trial... 25 Single Copies . . . .05 Canadian or Foreign: One Year... 1.50 On sale at Brentano's, New York City; also on news-stands in Ne York, Boston and elsewhere. RECEIPT of payment must not be expected to show on address label d wo weeks from date received. Instructions for RENEWAL, DISCONTINUANCE or CHANGE OF ADDRESS should be sent two eoe the date they are to go into effect. Both old and new addresses must always be siven. r t us oters houd be addressed to the office of The Woman's Journ85 Boylston Street, Boston, Mass. Registered letters or express company's money orders may be sent at our risk. Money sent ine o ot e itered will be at the risk of the sender. Checks and drfts and post-office orders should be made payable to The Woman's Journal. Advertising rates will be sent upon application to advertising manager. New York Advertising Representative, M. D. Bryant & Co., Inc., 200 Firth Avenue, New York City. Business Manager, AGNES E. RYAN.

THE RULE OF THE PEOPLE"

Theodore Roosevelt, in his letter announcing that he will accept the presidential nomination if it is offered him, says: “One of the chief principles for which I have stood and for which I now stand and which I have always endeavored and always shall endeavor to reduce to action, is the genuine rule of the people, and therefore I hope that so far as possible the people may be given the chance through direct primaries to express their preference as to who shall be the nominee of the Republican Presidential convention." Can we have “gsenuine rule of the people" while half of the people are debarred from all vote in the matter? A. S. B.

TWO HOT CUSTARD PIES

A dramatic incident in the press reports from Denver throws a side light on several favorite objections to suffrage. The other day a bandit entered a restaurant just as Miss Ina, who was in charge, walked forward from the kitchen, holding in each hand a steaming hot custard pie. The bandit bade her hold up her hands. Although reared under a regime of votes for women, Miss Inma prized the results of her cockery. She answered boldly, “I won't drop these pies for any villain like you." The bandit answered that he did not care what she did with the pies, but bade her on pain of her life not to move, and himself moved toward the cash register. Miss Ina saw her chance. Deftly raising one of the steaming custard pies, she hurled it at his head, and the soft part struck the bandit full in the face." Naturally he fled. He got his deserts in more senses than one. The antisuffragists claim that the responsibilities of the ballot will destroy women's nervous system. Colorado has had equal suffrage for 19 years, but evidently this young woman had her nerve all with her. Incidentally, she proved that she could fight, and fight effectively, though with a peculiarly feminine weapon.

A. S. B.

MR. BOK'S APOLOGIA

Mr. Edward W. Bok says that he has received a number of letters from women asking why he seems to go out of his way “to offend a great many estimable women by anti-suffrage articles." As the readers of The Woman's Journal are amons those who have been indignant, we shall give them the benefit of Mr. Bok's apologia, such as it is. He says: “We do not go out of our way to offend any class of women. Being a woman's magazine such a course would be folly and suicidal. The question of woman suffrage is in the air—it is a discussed question. It is natural that this magazine should discuss it. Before we were ready to do so our silence was construed to mean that we were afraid because it would hurt our circulation.”

The time when Mr. Bok was not “ready" to express himself against equal rights for women must have been a long while ago. His magazine has been assailing woman suffrage for many years past. He recalls the fact that on one occasion he gave both sides a hearing, publishing an article in favor by Jane Addams and one in opposition by Lyman Abbott. Mr. Bok continues: “Then folks wrote in and said: “Yes, but what is your opinion? We gave it. Then came a torrent of abuse. If our convictions had been in favor of equal suffrage, and we had said that, we would have caught it from that side. “Some readers away from the centers asked: Do women of

THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL. MARCH 2, 1912 AL prominence, whose lives and works are in points of vantase, disbelieve in woman suffrage? We showed that fifty of the ———most prominent women of America were on the antisuffrage 1 side." becor And he recapitulates a number of the names. Some of espec them are of women “prominent" only because they happened to circu marry a multimillionaire or a successful politician. One is that of a suffragist. By the way, did Mr. Bok ever publish a list of and fifty of the prominent women who are in favor? A. S. B. resol

RICHARD BARRY'S REPORT

Mr. Bok continues: “Then our readers requested: 'Send some one to the suffrase States and find out what has actually been done. We did."

Whom did Mr. Bok send? Anyone who might be expected to be impartial and truthful? He selected Richard Barry, who had previously distinguished himself by a malignant assault on equal suffrage, and by reckless inaccuracy in treating of it. Mr. Barry had published in Pearson's Magazine for February, 1910, an article in which he referred to Mrs. Matilda Josslyn Gase as a “determined spinster," described Mrs. O. H. P. Belmont as the “Honorary President" of the N. A. W. S. A—which has no Honorary President, and in which Mrs. Belmont held no office whatever—and said that Mrs. Harriet Stanton Blatch “put both her two daughters through Cornell University. One took a course in civil engineering, the other in blacksmithing." Mrs. Blatch has only one daughter. The tone of his article throughout was venomously hostile to votes for women: and he quoted the leading suffragists of New York (in the words of the Woman's Journal's editorial comment at the time) “as saying many things which their friends know they never could or would have said."

As might have been expected in view of his previous record, Mr. Barry's account of woman suffrage in the enfranchised States, written for Mr. Bok's magazine, was a tissue of abominable falsehoods. It called out a chorus of denial from prominent men and women in the States concerned. Out of Mr. Barry's many misstatements, the only one of which Mr. Bok ever allowed a correction to appear in his magazine, so far as we remember, was the assertion that the suffrage States had no organizations to find homes for dependent children. A. S. B.

AS TO MRS. GODDARD

Mr. Bok continues: “The article was published, and the suffragists said: It is false. Why didn't Mr. Bok let a Colorado woman speak? We asked Mrs. Francis W. Goddard, acknowledged as one of the most prominent women in Colorado, to speak. She did, and declared that woman suffrage in Colorado was a failure."

Mrs. Goddard is very old and very rich—two factors that usually make for conservatism. She is a reactionary standpatter in politics, an advocate of the “wet" as against the “dry" policy on the liquor question, and, like everybody else in Colorado who stands for the corrupt corporations and against the people. she hates Judge Lindsey. In an interview with the Providence Journal, during a visit to that city, Mrs. Goddard declared that Judge Lindsey had committed every crime in the calendar. As the women's votes prevented his defeat, she naturally looks upon woman suffrage as a failure. When Lindsey was invited to speak in her home town of Colorado Springs, Mrs. Goddard first tried to get the invitation retracted, and, failing in this, called up woman after woman of her acquaintance by telephone, begging them not to go to hear him. When the legislative committee of the Colorado Springs Woman's Club wrote to the members of the Legislature asking them not to elect as U. S. Senator a grafter and an upholder of special privilege, although no names were mentioned, Mrs. Goddard took the description as aimed at the candidate whom she favored, and resigned from the club. That is the sort of woman she is. A. . B

MR. BOK'S “CANVASS"

Mr. Bok says the suffragists declared that Mrs. Goddard was “absolutely alone in her position." She was not alone; she had the enthusiastic approval of all the vicious interests in Colorado. And no one has ever denied that there are some other Antis in Colorado, though they are an insignificant minority. Mr. Bok continues: “We had a canvass made of some prominent Colorado women, and we printed their opinions—eighteen of them, all declaring that woman suffrage in Colorado had not accomplished what it was hoped it would. “Now may I ask: Is all this going out of our way to offend" anybody? We did what our readers asked of us, and when we were challenged by the suffragists we answered their challenge."

According to the Colorado papers, Mr. Bok both wrote and telegraphed to Colorado, urging Mrs. Goddard to secure antisuffrage opinions for publication in his magazine. Out of the thousands of women in the State, he finally obtained statements from eighteen—only two of whom said that it had done any harm. And the eighteen, according to the Denver papers, were mainly fashionable women devoted to “bridge," who took no interest in public improvement. Mr. Bek speaks of making a canvass. Did he try to get any opinions in favor? Was not his whole canvass directed to get opinions opposed, and those only? He adds:

“The oft-repeated story by the suffragists that the editor of this magazine offered a Colorado woman $500 to say that woman suffrage in her State was a failure, and that she refused, has not the first scintilla of truth to it. Although I have personally written at least half a dozen times to Dr. Anna Howard Shaw, who made the statement, asking for the proof, she has never furnished it to me." Miss Shaw may have repeated a newspaper report which she supposed to be true, but of which confirmation is lackins. On the other hand, Mr. Bok has over and over given currency to the grossest falsehoods about woman suffrage; has habitually refused to correct them; and in addition has assumed a hypocritical pose of impartiality and magnanimity very irritating to those who know the truth. His present defence is as disingenuous as his whole course on this question has been.

A. S. B.

MR. BOK ON BOYCOTTS

Mr. Bok says that boycotting his magazsine “seems to have become quite a fashion among different woman's orsanizations," especially during the past year. Nevertheless, he assures us, his circulation shows an unprecedented growth. He adds:

Natio

Re N. A. presi ciatio O. H. vited of th As800 ton's lice of gu in the and The heard

“The point is this—and it is printed here for the suidance and information of those ladies who are always so ready to offer resolutions or a boycott: A boycott of any article sold inter- State'—that is, in other States than that in which it is manufactured—has been held by the U. S. Supreme Court to be illegal and actionable at law. Some day some woman's club or orsanization declaring a boycott on some periodical or article, may find its members served with summonses to appear in court to answer an actionable charge. Not necessarily from this magazine. This is not a personal or velled warning. These words are printed as information: as a preventer of trouble, particularly to those ladies in the States where women have voted for a number of years, who, one might think, would by this time have learned enough of civics and law to be careful how they create a boycott on this or any other magazine or company."

It is significant that it should be particularly the women in the enfranchised States who look upon Mr. Bok's magazine as so untruthful that it ought to be boycotted. They know the facts. But his point about the illegality of a boycott is correct; and indignant women should content themselves with pointing out the chronic meanness and slipperiness of Mr. Bok's course on this question, and let their hearers draw their own conclusions as to whether they want to keep on taking his magazine. A. S. B.

Activ Vot Spr ern Me

Go week tol th senta while for we he ha to dec

MORE AND MORE AND MORE LITERATURE

Two years ago the average monthly receipts from literature at National Headquarters was $90. This last month, it was $970. Some statistics may lie, but these don't, and the obvious conclusion to which they point is that the demand of the American public for data on the suffrage movement is growing more imperative every day.

cause chief “I a cause cause ter th their ficient of g00

The National Association is the publishing center for all the State and local associations, no one of which could reasonably provide for itself as mush or as many varieties of literature as it meeds for all phases of suffrage work. Certain kinds of campaign leaflets are necessarily printed locally, as is literature which deals with certain local social or industrial conditions, but, in general, the same arguments and objections have to be met all over the country, the same data presented to the legislators and the voters, and the women.

“Bu terest better chane ger th gets to his

The National Literature department has grown so fast that it has been exceedingly difficult to keep up both the quantity and quality of the supply. The quantity is a relatively simple matter, being dependent only upon the ability of the Association to pay the printer's bills, a not altogether easy matter, in spite of the fact that the department has become self-supporting during the last few months, for the reason that receipts from the sale of literature are severely drained by the demands of other departments which are not and never can be self-supporting.

Mis and N Yerk paign. tional They atten visit frage

The quality of the literature is not at all a simple matter, since it quickly becomes out of date as to statistics and social conditions. To revise carefully and accurately requires a large amount of research, involving time and a deal of correspondence. There is less and less demand for literature of the purely argumentative sort, and more and more for specific data as to the actual workings of equal suffrage.

The Scott frage on eve active, Club club i memb pendin work f

Fortunately, the department at last has what it has long needed—an editor. Mrs. Frances Maule Bjorkman, a trained magazine and newspaper writer, is bringing up to date all the old literature which is worth reprintins, and is producing and editing some very valuable new literature in various forms— pamphlets, booklets, leaflets and fliers. This necessary work has delayed the publication of the new complete catalogue far longer than one would wish, which is still another indication of a more rapid srowth of work than the Association has been able to provide workers to handle.

MOR COl

A Literature Half-Way House Western hurry-calls for suffrage literature can now be sent to a branch supply station which has been established for the Naticnal Association at the Headquarters of the Ilinois Association (Fine Arts Building, Michigan Ave., Chicago). This arrangement was brought about through the initiative of Miss Jane Addams and Miss Breckinridge, and it fills a leng-felt want. Suffragists frequently need literature suddenly, as one does the doctor, and if they chance to live in Nevada or Arizona it is discouraging to realize that eight days is about as short a time as can be counted on for getting it from National Headquarters, and, moreover, the express charges on any sizeable parcels are ruinous to the average suffrage treasury, thanks to the fact that our country is disgracefully behind others in not having reasonable postal rates.

Promin Neut Wisc

Mrs. gone b kee, wi her ma collect paign officers other promise Mrs. reporte first st that it nmo ston consin.

The Chicago office will have in stock all the chief publications of the National Association, and in suffcient quantity to fill quite large orders. The prices will be the same as those at National Headquarters. The saving will be in time, postage and express. The office is to be in charge of Mrs. Mary Plummer, Secretary of the Illinois Association, and member of the National Literature Committee, who has made arrangements for the prompt filling of all orders. This base of supplies will be specially advantageous to all of this year's campaign States, except New Hampshire, particularly toward the end, when election day is near, and eleventh hour projects are hastily developed, and every hour's work—or wait—counts.

“Rem frage br and tha the fall seventh enough the Stat

Mary Ware Dennett.

“Mrs. a signal Hugh States ise that pose the consin calculab of our c setts, N other St strong is

505 Fifth Avenue, New York.

AN OBJECT LESSON

When parents are forbidden to send their children on a vacation, and mothers are choked and clubbed for resisting the efforts of the police to tear their offspring from them by force, a much deeper issue is raised than the success or fallure of the Lawrence strike. Such acts sow the seeds of anarchy far and wide. How are our foreign immigrants to learn respect for the law, if the law is stretched to their disadvantage in a desperate struggle? It recalls the old minister's prayer: “O Lord, do mot suffer us to despise our rulers—and do not suffer them to behave so that we cannot help it!" A. S. B.

“The that Wi to vote would u

--- page 5 ---
TALK TO POLICE National President and Other Ladies Address 1,200 Police Officers

ave ," his

Rev. Anna H. Shaw, president of the N. A. W. S. A., Miss Grace Strachan, president of the Interborough Association of Women Teachers, and Mrs. O. H. P. Belmont were amons the invited speakers at the annual banquet of the Police Lieutenants' Benevolent Association in New York on Washinston's Birthday. Twelve hundred police officers in full uniform and scores of guests from other cities gathered in the grand ball reom of the Waldort. and listened to some sood doctrine. The reports say that Miss Shaw was heard with much attention.

mce fer terfacgal izaind wer his as o0se of med cott

OREGON ORGANIZING

in as the ect; ting arse conine.

Activity Spreading Daily in Behalf of Votes for Women—New Clubs Springing Up On Every Hand—Governor West Addresses Crowded Meeting at Capitol

Gov. West and other speakers last week addressed a meeting in the capitol that crowded the Hall of Representatives. The Governor said that. while he had quietly preached suffrage for women, this was the first time that he had been roped and tied and made to declare himself.

ture was ious the ving

“I am in favor of equal suffrage because I think it is right," said the chief executive. “I am in favor of equal suffrage because I have faith in women, and because I believe women stand for better things. Men are so wrapped up in their own affairs they do not give sufficient time to the study of the science of good government.

the ably e as camture but, met tors

“But I find that the women are interested in all things that go for the better. Give a woman the same chance as a man and she will do bigger things. There is many a man who gets credit for the brains that belong to his stenographer."

that and tter, pay the the e of part-

Miss C. Anita Whitney of California and Mrs. Helen Hoy Greeley of New York are helping in the Oregon campaign, as representatives of the National College Equal Suffrage League. They have addressed many wellattended meetings, and after their visit to the State University, a Suffrage Club will be organized there.

tter, ocial large ence. arguthe

The State President, Mrs. Abigail Scott Duniway, reports that new Suffrage Associations are springing up on every hand. The Men's League is active, and the Portland Woman's Club has sent out to every woman's club in the State a letter urging its members not only to endorse the pending suffrage amendment, but to work for it from now till November.

long ained the and ms— nmew ch is than

MORE GOOD NEWS COMES FROM WISCONSIN

sent r the sociaangee Aduffraoctor, uragan be moreus to counostal

Prominent Brewers Promise to Stand Neutral—Prediction that Success in Wisconsin Will Help New York

Mrs. Crystal Eastman Benedict has sone back to New York from Milwaukee, where she went last spring after her marriage to Wallace Benedict, to collect money for the suffrage campaisn in Wisconsin. The National officers at Headquarters and many other prominent suffragists have promised to help her. Mrs. O. H. P. Belmont summoned reporters to her office in East Fortyfirst street last week and explained that it was extremely important that no stone be left unturned to win Wisconsin.

ty to se at stage Plumf the ts for ill be tates, when astily

“Remember," she said, “that the suffrage bill has passed the Legislature and that it will go to the voters in the fall. All that is needed to add a seventh star to our flag is money enough for a thorough canvassing of the State.

“Mrs. Benedict has already achieved a signal victory. She has persuaded Hugh Fox, secretary of the United States Brewers' Association, to promise that his organization will not oppose the measure. The result in Wisconsin will have an almost incalculable influence on the progress of our cause in New York, Massachusetts, New Jersey, Connecticut and other States where it has become a strong issue.

on a g the force, of the r and r the erate d, do em to

“The effect on Albany of the news that Wisconsin women were entitied to vote on equal terms with men would undoubtedly be electrical. I

THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL. MARCH 2, 1912

feel sure that our own amendment will be passed by both houses at this session of the Legislature, and a victory in Wisconsin next November would entirely dissipate any fears on my part as to suffrage in New York.

“I think the attitude of the brewers is significant," continued Mrs. Belmont, “because they fought us bitterly in California and defeated us in San Francisco. If it hadn't been for the country vote we should have lost the State. Now they recognize, apparently, that we are probably strong enough to win without them and that it isn't to gain our ill will by fighting us."

Mrs. Benedict said that, in addition to the removal of Mr. Fox from the ranks of active enemies to the cause, she had secured the pledse of one of o biggest brewers in Milwaukee that there will be no organized opposition on the part of the State association of brewers, or even of the Milwaukee r

IN THE MAGAZINES

Harper, Ida Husted. Votes for women. Harper's Bazaar. New York March. The recent progress of the movement. Harper, 1da Husted. Woman suf frage crisis in Great Britain. Inde pendent. New York. Feb. 22. Nell, Bernarda vyon. Preussen und die preussischen Frau. Preussische Jahrbiicher. Berlin. February.

Obenauer, Marie L. Working hours. earnings and duration of employment of women workers in selected industries of Maryland and of California. U. S. Dept. of Commerce and Labor. Bureau of Labor. Bulletin. Washinston. September, 1911. (Just publis.ed.) Elizabeth J. Sherwood.

MISS SHAW'S DATES

The lecture appointments of the National President are: Feb. 26th, the Municipal Government League, Princeton College; 27th, Philadelphia; 28th, Wisconsin Campaigsn Meeting, New York City; 29th, Boston, Mass.; March ist to 10th, New Hampshire, under the auspices of the Concord Campaign Committee.

ADVERTISING PAYS

Wisconsin Women Get Answers to Their Ad. of Debating Material from All Over the State and Outside—Dane County Suffragists Hire Space in Madison Papers from Now till Election—Great Demand for Lit erature — Many Meetings— Lincoln Day Celebration a Brilliant Success The Political Equality League of Wisconsin is observing the birthdays of Lincoln and Washington this month. The Davidson Theatre in Milwaukee was engaged for both occasions.

Col. A. J. Watrous, one of Wisconsin's most patriotic and distinguished citizens, presided at the Lincoln Day exercises. The Colonel enlisted in the Civil War when a boy, and served four years with great credit to himself and his country. He again volunteered and served througsh the Spanish- American War, and now for a third time he has offered his services to his country, and has enlisted in this bloodless revolution of 1912, which we hope and believe will result in giving women the ballot.

Inspiring addresses were given by Dean Selden P. Delaney, Crystal Eastman Benedict and Beatrice Forbes Robertson. During the intermission preceding Mrs. Forbes Robertson's address, an opportunity was given the audience to become members of the League and pledge whatsoever they wished toward the campaign. Seventy-four became active members, seventeen registered, and over $200 was contributed.

On Feb. 22 Mrs. Emily Montague Bishop gave a number of impersonations from the United States Senate, followed by “How the Vote Was Won," which will be staged by Mrs. E. P. Sherry and Miss Norma Strauss. The intermissions of these patriotic programs are filled by an orchestral concert of national airs. Feb. 27 will, we hope and belleve, prove a red-letter day in Wisconsin's campaigsn. Mrs. Benedict, the League's efficient campaign manager, has sone to New York City, and word comes

FORM OF BEQUEST

I hereby give and bequeath to the National American Woman Suffrage Association, being incorporated under the laws of the District of Columbia, the sum of $........principal and interest to be applied by such association for the support and promotion of the cause of woman suffrage. d

back that the New York societies will unite in a meeting to raise funds for the campaign in Wisconsin. Feb. 28 Prof. Charles Zueblin lectured on “Man and Woman," in Plymouth Congregational Church.

March 2 the debate before the Associate Collegiate Alumnae will take place. A great deal of interest is manifested in this debate. Mrs. Crystal Eastman Benedict, Mrs. Wilbur C. Phillips and Miss Brand will represent the afrmative, Mrs. Scott, Dr. Marian L. Shorey of Milwaukee-Downer College and Miss Ethel Quarles the negative.

It is considered more or less of a joke in Wisconsin that anti-suffragists for debating purposes have to be imported. When the debate took place before the Saturday Lunch Club at Madison, the anti-suffragists had to send to Cleveland, O., for Mrs. J. S. Gundry. This time the antis hunted through Milwaukee and the State, then they tried Chicago, and ended the search by sending to “N' Yawk" to the N. A. O. F. E. S. W. and securing Mrs. Scott. It looks as though this organization would have to be preserved for debating purposes.

Arrangements have been completed for the lectures which will be siven by Mr. and Mrs. Max Eastman in Pabst Theatre, March 12. These enthusiastic meetings are not confined to Milwaukee, other cities throughout the State are having the privilege of hearing men and women of national and international reputations. Miss Sylvia Pankhurst, Beatrice Forbes Robertson, Florence Kelley, Emily Bishop, Prof. Zueblin, and Rachel Foster Avery are all giving suffrage addresses in Wisconsin this month.

The Dane County League will open Headquarters in Madison. They have contracted for a two-inch doublecolumn display advertisement in both Madison papers, to run daily until the November election.

Active county organizations are springing up all over the State, with well-known women of ability constituting the County Campaigsn Committee. Some weeks we are bewildered with requests for speakers. This week there were four Farmers' Institutes, requesting speakers for the 21st and 22d. The Civic Societies and Woman's Clubs make it almost impossible to fill all the engagements.

Literature is mailed daily to schools, clubs and individuals upon request. We advertised our debating material in the Western Teacher, and it brought not only responses from every “pocket" in Wisconsin, but requests from Illinois, Virginia and Kentucky. It pays to advertise. If our sood friends in distant States who are helping us wish to know what disposition we are making of money, we should like to state that our postage alone one week amounted to $25. This is an educational campaign, and the demand for literature speaks well for the average intelligence of our people.

Among the legacies from California was a box of literature, a gift much appreciated. If any other State has some outgrown literature, we can make it over for Wisconsin, as she is growing rapidly in her ideas of democracy, and it is embarrassing us somewhat to buy everything new for her. California's banners, stereopticon slides and literature all fit Wisconsin nicely, and we are truly srateful to our Western sister for her numerous sifts. Not the least among them has been good advice. Ada L. James.

Mr. James Lees Laidlaw has served on many juries, and he says he is impressed with the light regard usually given to crimes against women, especially if the woman has had any previous smirch on her chastity. He added—what ought to be encouraging to suffragists—that since the woman's movement has grown so strons, he can see a gradual change for the better in this respect.

ARE. YOU $UBSCRIBING T0 A MAGAZINE? If so, order it through our agency. The commission is used for suffrage. We take subscriptions to any and all magazines. Club Rates Furnished. A WAY T0 HELP SUFFRAGE WITHOUT PAYING AN EXTRA CENT ELIZABETH o p Bureau National Suffrage Headquarters, 508 Fifth Avenue

HYGIENIC CORSETS handiap to both socia and business te Itis woman's Sty to look her best. An unusual value at $5.50 and $7.50 HYGIENIC CORSET MFG. C0.

THE ellow Ribbon Speaker Compiled by Anna H. Shaw, Alice Stone Blackwell and Lucy E. Anthony. A book of woman suffrage readings and recitations. Price, 50 cents. Order from The Woman's Journal

SPEND YOUR VACATION IN EUROPE NILSON TOUR Leaves on “Cameronia" June ist from New York. Takes in Scotland, England and Scandimavia, return via Continent. Write for Itineraries and rates. NILS NILSON Passenger and Tourist Agency 127 South Third Street Minneapolis, Minn.

ADVERTISING When writing to the advertisers be sure to say, “I saw it in the Woman's Journal."

The Socialists observed Feb. 25 as Woman Suffrage Day, holding many meetings in advocacy of votes for women, throughout the United States. In New York City the meeting was in the Republic Theatre. Miss Rose Schneiderman presided; there was fine singing by Mrs. Alma Webster Powell, with addresses by Dr. George Lunn, Mayor of Schenectady, Mrs. May Wood Simons, Sol Fieldman and Miss Blackwell. Dr. Lunn gave an especially eloquent talk. His mother is a voter in Colorado.

A LIVELY CAMPAIGN WAGED IN KENOSHA

Nomen Appeal to Farmers—Also Print Circulars in German, Polish, italian and Lithuanian

If the women of any other county in Wisconsin are more active and enterprising than those of Kenosha County in promoting the cause of suffrage, they must be alert indeed. Having been denied a place on the program of the Farmers' Institutes at Somers and Bristol, the Kenosha County committee sent to Supt. George McKerrow the following telegram, asking that it be read at both institutes

“This telegram is to call the attention of the farm owners of Kenosha County to the campaign now being conducted by the women of Wisconsin in support of the amendment passed by both Houses of the Legislature granting votes to women. This will be referred to the people for approval next November. The more you study the question the more clearly you will see that the interests of the women of the cities and the farms are identical with the interests of the farm owners. In every State where it has carried, the farmers have voted solidly for it.

“The Kenosha County Committee. For the school election in Kenosha March 19 an organization will be ef-

69

Three beautiful halls with rooms connected. Especially suited for lodge rooms, concerts, dances, school purposes, meetings, recitals, etc. Three studios. Also a banquet hall. Apply on premises or to M. H. GULESIAN St. James Theatre, 239 Huntington Avenue, Boston

—

—— THERE — MUSIC IN YOUR

MUSIC is a weekly publication that ought to be in every home where there is any interest in musical matters. It is full of news and well-written. authoritative essays and reviews. Prof. Sleeper, of Smith College, conducts a “Problems and Suggestions" department that is of value to every music student. The front covers form a veritable art gallery of people famous in some branch of the musical art. Most of the pictures are made especially for us and will not appear elsewhere. REAL NEWS IMPARTIAL CRITICISM HUMAN INTEREST

“Every Issue an Edition de Luxe" Two Dollars the year. Fifty-twe Weekly Issues.

MUSIC PUBLISHING C0., lne

———————— Sigrid A. Johnson —: GOWNS :1— Evening Gowns a specialty Style, fit and satisfaction guaranteed 673 Boylston Street, Gill Bldg. Tel. 8. 8. 1471-M

3 Boylston Street, 6ill B Tel. 8. B. 1471-M

fected in each ward to get out the women's vote. Illustrated circulars will be sent to every woman, urging the importance of her vote on the school question. The circulars will be printed in German, Italian, Polish and Lithuanian as well as English. ————————————————————————— scottish Terriers Offered as companions. Not given to fighting or roaming. Best for children's pets.

NEWCASTLE KENNELS Brookline, Mass. IC CORSETS unnatural development; a serious al and business life. an's duty to look her best. t $5.50 and $7.50

--- page 6 ---
has been known to the editor of The Woman's Journal for many years. She is a lady of high character, and has been in the past extremely generous to the National American Woman Suffrage Association. She encloses in the letter accompanying her appeal a line from the president of a bank in her home town, testifying to her sood character and to her financial responsibility., Her appeal will speak for itself. A. S. B.

At Legal Annual or Semi-Annual Interest On Security As Hereinafter Explained, Prompt Assistance from Genuine Lovers of Justice and Liberty for the Mistreated Orphans of a Martyr to This Cause

The children of one who lived for and who, practically, also died for the cause of justice and liberty in an unprogressive community, — children born to an atmosphere of love and refinement in one of the most elegant of old colonial mansions,—fell, by complications and persecutions almost unbelievable in an age which calls itself civilized, into the hands of cearse and mercenary people, by whom they have been shamefully mistreated. One of these children has carried for weeks a bruise from the stub of a bussywhip. One has been held below the cover of a well with a threat to be dropped into it. At the same child a hot smoothing-iron, just removed from the stove, was thrown, missing the child only by accident.

Both parents are dead. The writer of this appoal and that parent who was a martyr to the cause of equal suffrage were the "Friends" alluded to in the verses thus titled, to be found elsewhere in this issue. The realty of the maker of this appeal is, by extraordinary complications (mot debt), so tied up as to be unavailable for the benefit of the victims, else this appeal would not be made. Apart from literary resources (in a lighter and happier vein—both prose and verse—than the selection given, for obvious reasons), the writer has also an unincumbered work, not of a literary nature, which has been pronounced by specialists in its line “a work of genius;" but any normal mind should understand that the relief of these children must precede the necessary application for placing this work on sale, which is a mere matter of detail, the work itself being practically perfected. Hence, the maker of this appeal would offer as security for the loan asked a life policy in a thorousghly reliable company, premiums, of course, to be paid by the borrower.

Though it is highly probable that the principal could be returned much earlier, the following terms are requested: Five years, with the option of making on any interest day principal payments in such amounts as the borrower is able, interest to be payable semi-annually or annually at option of debtor.

i. ? t

70

AN EARNEST APPEAL

WANTED

Intricately related to the mistreatment of these children, and as really a part of the matter, is a grievous injustice the solution of which will sreatly aid to solve the whole situation for them. Formerly even more complex, the whole matter has now assumed a phase by which it is believed that the amount below asked can secure tolerable justice, namely, $7,000; but rather than fail of the main matter—their immediate relief—by waiting to raise the whole amount needed, a loan of at least one-half that amount (namely, $3,500) is asked to relieve their present situation. Peculiar complications in the case make it more difficult of relief than an ordinary case of its kind.

A man who had been overtaken by much adversity was surrounded by numbers who were saying how sorry they were for him, but offered no practical assistance until a Jew in the crowd—this is written by a Gentile—said “Gentlemen, I am sorry five dollars worth." How much are you sorry for these children in dcllars and cents at legal interest? Any other kind of sorry is not worth a continental—I would put it stronger if the editor would publish the word I would use—for solving the situation of these children. It is not a begging proposition.

For the aggregate of small amounts

THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL, MARCH 2, 1912

lent, the maker of this appeal will sive a life policy in favor of The Woman's Journal, relieving the Journal, of course, of all remittance expenses on returning such amounts to the lenders. If one or more individuals are able to lend in amounts large enough to be insurable, such individuals will, of course, be personally insured for the amounts they lend.

The loan, or at least knowledge that it will be forthcoming, is urgently needed immediately. “What thou doest, do quickly." Send to The Woman's Journal, remembering to label “For benevolent loan," to be acknowledged in Journal with name and address of each sender unless lender requests otherwise.

Should any reader of sufficient means be willing to lend, or to advance at cnce, the whole amount, or a large part of it, to be reimbursed promptly by the Journal's holding smaller loans, as soon as received, to the credit of such advancer until amount thus advanced had been equalled, a prompt wire to the Journal (cost of which I would repay) stating when such amount would be sent to it, and whether as a loan or an advance loan, thus enabling the Journal to wire me promptly that the amount needed or a goodly part of it was already premised, such benefactor or benefactors of these helpless children will surely have future occasion to prove my gratitude, and I think I can safely add also theirs.

The following poems are by the author of the foregoing appeal:

FRIENDS

dived deep into the green, cool wood, “Our wood," where we joyed to stray; The love-vine(a) tangled her golden skein— In love with loving, nor spun for gain— The lily dighted without a stain, And dreamily waved the bay; Each wood bird, reverent of my mood (Whole givn dear other of us twain), With hushed note bade me stay; Rare perfumes—old as the heart of love, As new as a newborn day— Fine-mingled as color on throat of the dove, Breathed hidden sweetness could store all hives; And our two springs—as close as our hearts, With deltas as far as our lives— Low babbled and babbled, “Come, drink again!" Till they lured me unto the heart of the wood With their silvery liquid arts, Now spectral, now vanished, in snowwhite spray; But there, by twin fountains, alone I stood, And, lonely, I turned away. (a) Popularly, love-vine; botanically, dodder, a leafless threadlike parasite of orange hue, presenting, in luxuriant growth, literally the appearance of matted golden strands.

POEMS OF POWER (a) Panoplied

Forward and backward, early and late, I sail through the port of the golden gate, Where near-wise, fool, and slumberer wait. As oft as one near-wise I see, I bear such to the gate with me And leave each to its mystery, That each in after-time may be One more lone-sailor-free To guide recruits to victory. Love is my breastplate and Truth my helm. I bear no arms, but my armor dear Disarms the armed, for it breaks his spear. The oldest song of time I sing— Am equalready to bless a king Or the smallest life in a realm.

(a)"“Power" as here used has a special meaning, which will be understood by those who store it.

Universal Love

Love all embracing, not self-effacing, (a) Is season vernal, Is youth eternal; As warm as fire, as soft as lyre, And as time as old; As harried patience of unshorn Sam son, triumphant strons; No babe as youns; As swift as arrow from Red Man's quiver; As siow as journey of winding river; As full of pity as rain for flowers that wilt; (b) As stern as judgment; As keen as talent; Than ether lighter; as grievous heavy as guilt; As bold of spirit as conquering Franc; As true as carrier-dove in flight o'er the wold; As wormwood, bitter; Than music, sweeter; As pure as the white that caps Mont And as cold.

) s e t the l i a part of justice absolute as is justice o any other entity in the universe but universal love, drawing a distinction between the permanent and the personal self, sometimes foregoes material justice to the personal self (though it never voluntarily foregoes moral justice even to the personal self), being consciously equal to the consequences of its decision if its beneficiary or beneficiaries prove unsrateful. In such event universal love, though at times in duty bound to be severe, never indulges pitiless contempt, but serenely resigsns the issue to universal law, which, in its own time and way, requites benevolence and instructs ingratitude. Universal love, however, resigns no issue to remote future adjustment untir all honorable and feasible means toward getting justice here and now, have been exhausted.

(b) Rain assists wilting flowers to stand erect. Universal love, in exercising its sentiment of pity, recosnizes its own moral obligation to guard against morally weakening its beneficiaries. PRIZES FOR ESSAYS

PRIZES FOR ESSAYS

ampshire Suffragists Offer Them to Students and Grangers—Miss Shaw's Dates—Great interest in Inter- School Debate

Hon. Charles R. Corning of Concord spoke for woman suffrage at the annual banquet of the Franklin Board of Trade on Washington's Birthday. Always an enthusiastic suffragist, on this occasion he treated the subject in a scholarly and masterly manner. Meetings were held in Lebanon and West Lebanon on Feb. 23 and 24. Mrs. Winston Churchill spoke at the o nightly Club one day, and the next gave a parlor talk at the residence of Mrs. Hurlburt.

Rev. and Mrs. Henry G. Ives of Andover are to speak in Good Templars' Hall, Wilmot Flat, March 2.

Rev. Anna H. Shaw, National President, is to have nine days' meetings, under the auspices of the Concord E. S. A., of which Mrs. Agnes M. Jenks is chairman. Mrs. Jenks also will speak at each meeting. The dates are: March 1 at Newport; March 4 at Keene, where Rev. H. Sumner Mitchell will preside; March 5, at Nashua, where Judge E. E. Parker will preside; March 6, at Manchester, where Hon. Oliver Branch will preside, and March 7 at Dover, where Hon. Dwight Hall, the Mayor, will preside.

Mrs. Jenks is to speak before the Manchester Central Labor Union on March 3.

Great interest is manifested in Concord in the Interscholastic Debate on Equal Suffrage in the Dartmouth series, Concord High School vs. Tilton Seminary, which will take place at the High School Hall, Concord, March 1. The boys, who have done earnest work, are feeling a little alarmed at being pitted against a seminary where the debaters are older than the high school students. However, it has spurred them on to greater effort. Prizes of $10, $5 and $2.50 respectively are offered to all regular members of New Hampshire secondary schools for the best essays of not over 500 words, favoring woman suffrage. Literature may be had at Suffrage Headquarters, 15 State Block, Concord. Finished essays may be presented at Headquarters between June 1 and Oct. 1. Judges will be selected from the New Hampshire Collegse Women's Equal Suffrage League.

Regular members of New Hampshire Granges are offered similar prizes of $10, $5 and $2.50 for the best essays favoring woman suffrage. These must be presented by Oct. 1. Further details will follow.

Mrs. Barrett Wendell of Massachusetts has started an Anti Association at Portsmouth.

They Ask That Municipal Vote Be No Longer Limited to Widows and Spinsters

Following up their advantage re cently obtained by a favorable resolution of the Toronto City Council, the presidents of the Toronto Suffrage Association, the Equal Franchise League, and the Women Teachers' Franchise Club have sent a letter to all the members of the Ontario Lesislature in support of the Toronto City

ADVERTISEMENTS CLASSIFIED

PRINTERS

We beg to announce that we are printers of many well known publications, among hem “7h: Woman's 1f have booklet, a magazine or a book send it along. o

23 Pearl St., Boston, Mass.

INVESTMENTS

Independent women investors are realizing the value of our shares and in consequence we have only a few remaining unsold. We want to have you learn about the BEST income producer, for the longest time of any investment with which you are familiar: our DIXIE PECAN GROVES. PAPER SHELL PECANS ARE BEING USED SO MUCH THAT AT PRESENT THEY ARE BRINGING $1 PER POUND AT THE TREE, WITH THE DEMAND MANY HUNDRED TIMES THE AVALL- ABLE SUPPLY. WE DO NOT FIGURE MORE THAN 35 CENTS PER POUND.

Let us send you our booklet, “A Royal Income from the King of Nuts," so that you may learn something of our investment and what other people know about a safe yet profitable place to put your surplus.

E. W. DENNISON 132 North Grove Street East Orange, N. J.

ACOBS' 1912 EUROPEAN TOURS An Ideal Summer Vacation would be our five weeks' COACHING TOUR OF THE BRITIS' ISLES, adding the Continent if desired. Prospectus gives full particulars. Address C. W. JACOBS, Drawer “J," Rock Valley, la.

Council's recommendation that married women shall be allowed to vote in municipal elections. At present only unmarried women or widows may vote. In part, the circular says:

“It is obvious that this disability which descends upon women on marriage is nothing but an antiquated remnant of the subservient position in which women were placed before the passage of the Married Women's Property Acts, when no married woman was allowed to dispose of her own property or even of the wages earned by her own labor. All these were absolutely her husband's, and she had practically no existence under the civil law.

“In our present time, when a married woman is directly taxed by the municipality on her own property or income, it is surely highly unfair, and utterly opposed to democratic principles, to deny her a direct voice in the imposing and spending of the taxes which she is compelled to pay directly. “We are confident that the members of the Ontario Legislature are as true to the principle of 'fair play' for the women of Ontario as are the men of the Toronto Council, with regard to the women of Toronto, and that you will see your way to support legislation abolishing an unfair discrimination which is out of place under the enlightened understanding of society in the twentieth century."

A large deputation will wait upon Sir James Whitney to urge that the married women be put on a level with the spinsters.

PENNSYLVANIA WILL HAVE HEARING MARCH 22

Three Questions to Be Answered By Suffragists and Antis

So many petitions for suffrage have poured in that the Legislative Commission to Revise the Election Laws of Pennsylvania has appointed a hear-

most a yea Mrs dent the w and t statio of th Comm in per tience waiti comm prove. came

DRAMATIC PORTRAYAL

EMILY MOUNTAGUE BISHOP is available for spring dates and for the season of 1912-1913 for Suffrage Program composed o HUMOROUS SENATE SCENES Entitled MAN, WOMAN'S EQUAL" For circulars, terms and dates address EMILY MONTAGUE BISHOP, 600 W. 192d S.., New York City

Gue Velma Childe presid and s

00

PRIMROSE ORANGE PEXOE Everywhere Most Popular 20 cents and this coupon will buy a regular 306c can at your grocer's or at 35 Commercial Wh., Boston

Miss and about downtribut ian," limite blocks 250 ca Votes In add men gave t trating and co condit Italian even th ried ou It was iar ty variati her co her fa claimed know charmi princel; 'I think room. parade girl res isn't it we'll mewspa seemed Mrs. Conn., work i organiz Canaan

HOUSEWORK.—Armenian of 20, with excellent 1ecommendation from former employer, wants place, n family where he can improve his English. Can read and write English, but not speak it fluently. Address Olan Shirinian, 57 Market Street, Lynn, Mass. NURSE OR CHAUFFEUR.—Armenian with four years' experience as nurse, seven as chauffeur, and twelve in wants work in either line. Speaks glish and French; has first-rate references. Address Aris Garinian, 25 Kneeland Street, Boston. HOUSE OR STORE.—Armenian teacher, here to take normal course, could not follow lectures at Normal School for lack of practice in hearing English, though well able to read it and to understand it if spoken slowly. Wants hou,ework or other job where he can hear English talked, Bxcellent reference as to character. Address Bartevian, 253 Shawmut Avenue, ston.

IiLLINGIS EQUAL SUFFRAGE ASSO.

938 Fine Arts Blds., Chicago, publishes the following literature Bridget's Sisters," a suffrage play; per copy........... 25c “Why," a two-page leaflet; per thousand........... . $2.00 “Shall Men Vote?" leaflet; per thousand.......... .$2.50 Illinois Chronology, leaflet; per thousand........... . $2.50 Mayors of Five States; per undred ... Bible on Woman Suffrage; per copy.. 50 Laws of Illinois; per copy.. 10c “Mr. Lex," in paper covers; Handsome crepe paper, yellow-bordered suffrage napkins; per thousand.... $4.00 Per hundred............. 50c

Mrs. Conn., work i organiz Canaan fill the ings in to entic town other p pay five twice as village only th member

TO LET. APARTMENT on Newbury Street, two rooms, with kitchen and bath, to be let furnished) for six months trom April 1, by a lady leaving Boston for the summer. Telephone Back Bay 5023-W. ing to be held in the Council Chamber on March 22. The chairman of the Commission, Frank P. Prichard, has asked to have the discussion carried on along the following lines:

“Do the majority of women desire the right of suffrage, and what statistics are available as a basis of judsment on this question?"

GRE

“wWill the right of suffrage, if granted, be exercised generally by women, and what statistics are available on this question?"

Connect End t Meetin

Connect End t Meetin

“Will the exercise of suffrage by wemen result in a benefit to the community, and what statistics are available to prove this?"

“I hop women said Mrs woman liever in of a ce held one meetings haven't Pequot and so t frage Ass Statew paign, w weeks ol

It probably cannot be shown that the majority of women want the ballot; the majority are indifferent, but it can easily be shown that more woman favor than oppose it. On the secend and third points, the suffragists will be able to carry all before them. Both sides are to have a hearing.

MISS ELLEN GLASGOW MAKES MAIDEN SPEECH

The ca the most dreds of the eversuffragist that in th signed be During th smaller to the excer Max East meeting. president Miss B. Rheta Ch Plerson w The other woweel Derby, Se erville, B on, Berli

Literary Tea of Women's Political Union, at Which Virginia Women Speak—The “Silent Siege" in Albany

The Women's Political Union of New York has social afternoon teas every Sunday, with prominent speakers to explain the progress of the suffrage cause in a neighboring State or in the various districts of Greater New York. Last Sunday the guests of the afternoon, Miss Ellen Glasgow and Mrs. Louise Collier Wilcox, told of the inception and growth of the work in Virginia. Miss Glassow made her maiden speech. She told charmingly how the women of Richmond went about the business of learning to speak, till now they had several really excellent speakers. She related many amusing incidents, and described the

--- page 7 ---
growth of the League, which was al most a secret organization for nearly a year.

Mrs. Harriot Stanton Blatch, president of the Union, save an account of the work of the past week in Albany, and told about the women who had stationed themselves one at either side of the door of the Senate Judiciary Committee room all day Wednesday, in perfect silence, to symbolize the patience and persistence of the women, waiting for the bill to be put out of committee. The silent militancy had proven to be successtul, for the bill came out.

t t nte h. 57 in n e, sh - t, T, 1of 1 it er s8 e, wo let ths ton Bay amof ard, carsire tisdgant nen, on by omvailthat balbut nore the frafore ear- CH

Guests of the afternoon were Mrs. Velma Swanston Howard, Mrs. Rheta Childe Dorr, Mrs. May Riley Smith, president of Sorosis, and Mr. Smith and several other gentlemen.

At the tea on the Sunday before, Miss Lavinia Dock, author of Hygiene and Morality, gave an informal talk about the first suffrage work in the down-town Italian quarter. “We distributed 5000 circulars printed in Italian," she said, “and the response was limited to those who lived within two blocks of our meeting place. About 250 came to hear what we meant by Votes for Women' posters in Italian. In addition to two splendid speakers, men who work in Italian trades, we gave them a moving-picture show illustrating labor conditions, lack of parks, and contrasted them with pictures of conditions where women vote. The Italians are always very polite, and even the saloon-keepers where we carried our circulars were most courteous. It was interesting to watch the familiar types appear, with merely slight variations. The anti was there with her contempt, which was manifest in her facial expression as she exclaimed: Me no read! Me not want know notting 'bout anyting!'—and a charming old Italian was almost princely in his manner when he said: I think the ladies have to stay in the room. Many in the audience signed parade slips, and a sixteen-year-old girl responded with enthusiasm: ‘Oh, isn't it fine! How soon do you think we'll get our rights? The Italian newspapers gave us good notices, and seemed much pleased with our work." Mrs. H. H. Knox of New Canaan, Conn., teld of the progress of suffrage work in her State; how the women organized a suffrage society in New Canaan with only enough members to fill the offices. By holding their meetings in the town hall they were able to entice women to attend, but for the town hall that was siven free for other political meetings, they had to pay five dollars for an afternoon, and twice as much for an evening. In the village of Milton a society organized only three weeks ago now has 57 members.

H. H. D.

GREAT TROLLEY TOUR

Connecticut Is Being Stirred from End to End—Another White Slave Meeting

“I hope I won't die until I see the women get the vote in Connecticut," said Mrs. Kate E. Hunt of Guilford, a woman now 92 years old, and a believer in equal suffrage for a quarter of a century, when the suffragists held one of their trolley campaign meetings in Guilford recently. “We haven't been so worked up since the Pequot War," they said in Fairfield; and so the Connecticut Woman Suffrage Association continues to stir the State with its unique trolley campaign, which is already some four weeks old.

CH tical men Al-

The campaign is progressing with the most satistactory results. Hundreds of names have been added to the ever-growing list of Connecticut suffragists, and it is now estimated that in the State there are some $000 sisned bellevers in woman suffrage. During the past two weeks only the smaller towns have been visited, with the exception of New Haven, where Max Bastman addressed a large mass meeting. Mrs. willlam T. Hincks, president of the State Association, Miss E. J. Owen of London, Mrs. Rheta Childe Dorr and Miss Emily Plerson were also present and spoke. The other places visited im the past two weeks are Shelton, Ansonia, Derby, Seymour, North Haven, Cen terville, Branford, Madison, Southinston, Beriim and Meriden. Beginning

of teas eaksuf te or New f the and f the rk in her ingly went gto ly many the

THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL. MARCH 2, 1912

with the week of Feb. 26, Wallinsford, New Britain, Plainville, Farminston and Newington will be visited. Miss Jean Kynoch, who is assisting Miss Pierson all through the campaign, relates an amusing incident which happened while she was arranging for the meeting at Meriden. She went into a restaurant where there were fifteen men and one woman. The woman soon finished her meal, and left the room, forgetting to close the door after her. One of the men rose ansrily and slammed the door shut, with the remark, “There's no one here but suffragettes and hogs." When Miss Kynoch was leaving the restaurant, she turned and said, “All the suffragists have gone now." “Yes," interrupted one of the men, “and there's nothing left but hogs."

The working girls of Hartford are getting up a meeting entirely on their own hook for the purpose of bringing out the connection between suffrage and the fight against white slavery. This meeting will be held on Feb. 29, with Mrs. Thomas N. Hepburn, former State president, and Mrs. Edward Porritt, corresponding secretary, as speakers. Much criticism, and unjust criticism at that, has been made of the recent mass meeting held in Hartford under the auspices of the Hartford Equal Franchise League against the white slave conditions existing in Hartford, and it is hoped that this meeting of the girls may tend to straighten out matters to some extent, and to vindicate the action of the Hartford League in doing just as it did. Mrs. Porritt will endeavor to explain why, instead of attacking the evil of white slavery, suffragists concentrate their energies on procuring the vote.

The picture which aroused so much criticism in Hartford, and which has already been reproduced in The Woman's Journal, together with the literature circulated at the time of the white slave meeting, will be on exhibition at the Philadelphia Horticultural Hall, Feb. 27 and 28. Helen G. Sherwood.

MINNESOTA'S WOMAN SUFFRAGE PARTY

Editor Woman's Journal:— Some misapprehension regarding the Woman Suffrage Party of Minnesota seems to exist. Will you allow a statement of facts?

The party was organized something over a year ago. Articles of incorporation were filed, and a central committee formed in Hennepin County. No work was ever attempted outside of Hennepin County. The work in said county was confined to the securing of lecturers of note for Minneapolis, and signatures to cards issued by the party. Thus far the work was a signal success. Mrs. Pankhurst's lecture was undertaken at an expense of $500, and, althougsh the weather proved very bad, we had a fine balance for the treasury, and this was true of the several lesser undertakings in this line.

Suffrage work in Minnesota so shaped itself as to make it seem best, for the advancement of the cause, to throw all effort into the work with the Minnesota State Woman Suffrage Association. Having only the good of the cause in view, the Central Committee of Hennepin County disbanded for the present. The charter and the corporate articles remain intact, so that, if at any time it is thought best, this line of work, which appeals strongly to many, can be easily taken up again. Ethel E. Hurd, M.D. Minneapolis.

NOTES AND NEWS

In Kansas, the Nemaha County Teachers' Convention has declared for equal suffrage. Mrs. Florence Kelley spoke for woman suffrage this week in Madison, Wis., and Prof. Charles Zueblin in Milwaukee. Governor McGovern of Wisconsin is being urged to appoint a woman on the State Board, of Agriculture. Mrs. Anna Perkins Jeansen of Oshkosh is a candidate.

The Minnesota W. S. A. has organized a large lecture bureau of prominent men and women in that State who are willing to speak for equal suffrage.

The Boston School Board, in answer to a letter of inquiry from Miss Mabel C. Willard, says that its recent order forbidding teachers to belong to any political organization does not apply to suffrage organizations. The Seattle Council of Women Votters is planning an entertainment to raise funds for the Wisconsin campaign. One of its members is Dr. Maybelle M. Park, formerly a practising physician in Waukesha, Wis.

The Des Moines suffragists have set out to hold 300 parlor meetings in that city. The best homes in Des Moines are being opened for these meetings, and before they are over the community will be well leavened with suffrage sentiment. The Antis are said to intend starting a national magazine, to oppose the growing progress of equal suffrage. By all means let them do so. The oftener the objections are stated, the more evident their flimsiness becomes. Mrs. Arthur M. Dodge has the new venture in charge.

Twelve hundred women of Ottawa, Kan., listened recently to an eloquent sermon in favor of equal suffrage by Rev. J. McD. Kerr, which made a deep impression. The Kerr brothers have been holding evangelistic services there. Mr. Kerr held up the heroic women of history to those who claimed that women were too weak for political duties. He gave a scathing review of the current objections, and made a powerful appeal for the granting of the ballot. The Ottawa Guardian devotes half its first page to a report.

There is the liveliest difference of opinion among English suffragists as to the sincerity of Mr. Lloyd-George. Hence the interruptions that marked his address at the great Albert Hall suffrage meeting the other day. All the non-militant societies, one of the two militant ones (the Woman's Freedom League, of which Mrs. Despard is president), and the Conciliation Committee of members of Parliament, are giving their support to his proposal to try to add a woman suffrage amendment to the government's franchise reform bill. Mrs. Pankhurst's society remains irreconcilably sceptical of his sincerity. The future will show who was right.

Mr. W. C. Reick, who has lately left the New York Times and taken charge of the Sun, has decided to discontinue the articles of Mrs. Ida Husted Harper in the Sunday edition. Strong protests from the national president, Rev. Anna H. Shaw, and from other leading suffragists, have failed to change his position. Mrs. Harper's able articles were widely copied, and many women who, like the editor of The Woman's Journal, had subscribed for the Sunday Sun for the sake of them, feel themselves almost defrauded. However, the chief loss is the Sun's. Plenty of other periodicals will welcome Mrs. Harper's contributions.

Cambridge is now added to the list of Massachusetts cities showing an unprecedented registration of women for the school election. On the last day 1,260 registered, making 6,228 in all. The question of re-electing or defeating Prof. Joseph H. Beale calls out the unusual interest. Some years ago Cambridge women registered in considerable numbers, and turned the scale at the school election by their votes. Thereupon the Republicans and Democrats united upen the same school ticket, on purpose to keep the women from being able to influence the election. Under those circumstances the women's vote naturally fell off. This year they have something to vote for, and they mean to vote.

Omaha suffragists were invited to attend a Roosevelt convention on Washington's Birthday, and to help pay the expenses. According to the Omaha Bee, Mrs. W. E. Shafer, president of the Omaha W. S. A., refused, on the ground that Roosevelt's position on suffrage was unsatisfactory. “On the other hand," she said, “La Follette is a staunch suffragist, and Mrs. La Follette is an officer of the Naticnal Suffrage Society."” Meanwhile an anti-suffrage club in Connecticut has elected Roosevelt's sister, Mrs. Cowles, as its chairman, and the press reports say that the women did this “as a slap at the Colonel," im resentment of his coming out for woman suffrage. These be the penalties of ukewarmness. The Colonel is catching it on both sides.

SUFFRAGE LITERATURE AND SUPPLIES Order any of the following from NATIONAL SUFFRAGE HEADQUARTERS 505 Fifth Avenue, New York of interest to Legisiators A revised and improved edition prepared especially for Legislatures where a suffrage bill is pending ... Fr om application A Suffrage Answer to An Anti-Suffrage Platform A new leafiet, in parallel columns. Every legislator should receive one this session ......... Per 100 .25 Also good for general use............. Postpaid 30 LATEST PAMPHLETS Per Per By Mrs. Harper Copy Doz. The World Movement for Woman Suffrage ......... o1 10 Postpaid 02 12 How Six States Won Woman Suffrage ............... 05 50 Postpaid 06 54 By Mrs. Porritt The Causes of the Revolt of the Women in England.. 03 30 Postpaid 04 34 The Militant Suffrage Movement in England ......... 03 30 Postpaid 04 34 The Political Dutles of Mothers ................... o1 10 Postpaid 02 14 Votes and Bables ......... o1 10 Postpaid .02 13 WHAT WOMEN MIGHT DO WITH THE BALLOT A new series of pamphlets by eminent authors. Twelve are in preparation. The following four ready now: The Abolition of Child Labor By Florence Kelley The Abolition of White Slave Traffic .05 50 By Clifford G. Roe Postpaid Reasonable Postal Laws By James L. Cowles 06 54 Fire Prevention By Arthur E. McFarlane Does the Husband Support the Wife? By Emmeline Pethick Lawrence, Editor of “Votes for Women," and Charlotte Perkins Gilman, Editor of “The Forerunner”....... .05 50 Postpaid 06 59 Report of the Special Commission Appointed by the Chamber of Deputies on the Workings of Woman Suffrage All Over the World Resume translated by Mrs. Raymond Brown... .05 50 Postpaid 06 58 Is Woman Suffrage important?............ 2 for .05 25 By Max Eastman Postpaid 2 for .06 Militant Mothods ...0 $ foOr .05 25 By Alice Stone Blackwell Postpaid 2 for .06 Women Should Mind Their Own Business By Prof. E. J. Ward Why Man Needs Woman's Ballot 2 for .05 25 By Clifford Howard Postpaid 06 29 When All the Women Want it By Alice Stone Blackwell Disfranchisement By Dr. W. E. Burghardt Du Bois............... .05 50 Postpaid 06 54 Breaking into the Human Race By Rheta Childe Dorr.......... 05 50 Postpaid 06 56 LATEST LEAFLETS “The Ladies Battle" An Answer to Molly Elliott Seawell By Alice Stone Blackwell Mrs. Howe's Census Postpaid Extracts from a Canvass of the Per 100 15 20 Clergy in the Suffrage States Gains in Equal Suffrage A Table Showing the Progress in the Past Eighty Years Postpaid Rainbow Fliers in German ..............Per 100 15 20 The New America Per copy Per 100 Suffrage Song Used in the California Campaign o1 .7b Postpaid 02 87 PENNANTS Yellow felt with white letters Per doz. Large size 12x30 inches............... 50 5.40 25 2.40 Send stamp for the new list of Suffrage Plays, giving prices and deen eamiieondam

THE NEW STICKER or SEAL An adaptation of the design showing Liberty welcoming the new star— California. Use them on all your letters and parcels. Neatly put up in oiled paper books of 100. Price, per book ........$0.75 Price, 10 books ........ 5.00 singly ....... 1 Cent Each

NEW PICTURE POSTER For advertising meetings Space left for date and place. Size 36 x 42 in Printed in purple, green and white Price, singly—l10c. Postpaid—.15 Per doz.—$1.00 Postpaid—$1.25 VOTES FOR WOMEN NOTE

VOTES FOR WOMEN BUTTERFLIES A NEW KIND OF SUFFRAGE BADGE They stick tight Wherever they light, Try them and see. (GOood as Favors at Fairs, Luncheons and Teas, or to sell at meetings. Two for Five cents. $2.00 per 100. Postpaid $2.20 per 100. aaes NEW, POST, CARD Liberty welcoming the sixth star. h ENCLISH POST CARDS

Prejudice battling with Justice.... An artistic picture issued by the Artists' Suffrage League. Price ......... Five Cents Each CALIFORNIA POPPIES Good as decoration. They are gay and yellow and each is tied with a vyotes for women ribbon. Prioe ofe nea

so o SHuon $1.50 Per Dozen Votes for Women Paper Napkins Just the Thing for Teas, Luncheons, Etc. Decorated with a Blue “Votes for Women" Border Order now Price 35 cents per 100, post pald. PHOTOCRAPH CALLERY of EMINENT SUFFRACISTS

An interesting colleetion of portraits, mounted on canvas, all ready for hanging as a temporary exhibition. The gallery may be rented to any suffrage association for the nominal fee of $1.00 plus expressage. — —

--- page 8 ---
72

COMPLACENT WOMEN

By Max Ehrmann

Complacent women sitting idly by, mot a hand for freedom's e. Hear you no voices calling you to rise? Hear you no bitter cries of women slaves, Scar-marked and cuffed throush all the ages past, The fevered tongues of a thousand years of night, The sea dirge of a sea of women's tears? Complacent women sitting idly by, Bereft of dreams, dead faced, and leaden souled, What sting will rouse you up to stand erect, Convert your beggars' whines to flierce demands, And heat your heart with flames of human fire? 1Is there within your soul no pride of life, No whispered music, and no star of hope? Are you some breed between the horse and man, A little over one, beneath the other, That you have no desire for human rights? Slaves of ten thousand years, playthings, and worse, I taunt you, sting you with the tongue of shame, To rouse you up to claim your human rights.

SAN FRANCISCO WOMEN REGISTER BRISKLY

Working Women Are Given Time off to Register—Mayor Lends His Car— Many Baby Carriages at Registrar's office—Father Often Guards Baby While MWMother Registers—Forty Extra Clerks Needed to Take Women's Names

The women of San Francisco celebrated Feb. 14 in a manner calculated to rouse good old St. Valentine from his long sleep.. The New Era Club sounded the trumpet call, summoning the newly enfranchised women to pay their devetions to Uncle Sam in the form of registration as citizens. The club kept open house at the St. Francis Hotel all day, serving tea (35 a pound donated tea), and other sood things to all comers, dispatching all not yet registered to the City Hall in automobiles, and aderning the occasion with the social graces women love.

So it came about that hundreds of shopgirls rode to and from the registration office in Mayor Rolph's car (donated for the day along with a score or more others). Clubwomen had been interviewing employers for a week, with the result that all working women in the large establishments were allowed time to register on this or some other day of the week.

There were octogenarians in the Registrar's cffice, and there were baby carriages galore outside, some of them attended by faithful fathers, who stood guard “while mother registered." The registrar's forty extra clerks (including one lone woman) seemed to be helping the regular staff to smile all day, in spite of the fact that a small army of working women had besieged the place before the doors were open in the morning, and it was understood that evening sessions were about to begin. Clubwomen coached the applicants, and the clerks apologetically in sisted that this must be the reason that it tocok, on an average, only half as long to register a woman as a man!

The occasion for speeding up the registration is only a bond election upon which everybody is agreed anyway—not a moral crisis which might be expected to appeal to women, ner the climax of a campaign filled with the speeches and smiles of popular candidates. So the Registrar's opinion that 60,000 women will have resistered in the city by the time the books close next week is eminently satisfactory to the faction which has been contending that women want to vote.

One of the clerks at the St. Francis Hotel got a story out of the situation. He says a woman drifted up to his desk and softly said she wanted to register. She looked at the large page spread before her and asked if she should write her cwn or her husband's name. “Husband with you?" asked the clerk, still briskly. “No." “Then just write your own name. Private bath?"

THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL, MARCH 2, 1912

And the clerk understood, still briskly.

Altogether it was a glorious democratic, new-era sort of day, with the California sunshine flooding everything, with the scent of daffodils in the air, and with violets so cheap that even the least of these new citizens for once shared some one's “three bunches for a quarter," and found them satisfactory substitutes for the cigars with which hopeful politicians formerly expressed their love of all mankind. Mary Calkins Brooke, in New York Evening Post.

KANSAS LABOR MEN ALL FOR SUFFRAGE State Convention Endorses Votes for Women Almost Unanimously

The Kansas State Society of Labor and Industry, at its recent meeting in Wichita, listened to Mrs. Lillian Michner and Mrs. Lilla Day Monroe on equal suffrage, and then voted for it without discussion and almost unanimously. This vote meant much more than the mere ordinary carrying of a resolution, because those standing pledged themselves not alone to vote for the amendment, but also to work and speak for it.

Mrs. Monroe appeared before the convention by invitation of Miss Zula Taylor, one of the women delegates representing the Garment Makers' Union. Mrs. Monroe has been before the society so many times with suffrage resolutions that she is personally acquainted with many of the leaders. They were pleased at her little conceit about her union card. She claimed that she had a right to be heard because she had a union card. When she described it, and teld that it was given to her by a minister, they knew it was her marriage certificate. But she insisted that it was a union card, and permitted her to work for the State without price or consideration, and that she had already furnished four citizens, and that she had heard that citizens in Kansas were nmow worth $5,000 per head to the State, per year. So, because of her labors for the State, she asked that she be made a full-fledged citizen, with all the rights and privileges of any other citizen of Kansas.

DR. CHARLES. F. AKED SPEAKS IN NEVADA

ie Lectures for Suffrage in Reno, and Offers to Give a Month of Speaking Later for the Cause—State University Hears Two Addresses on Votes for Women

Mrs. Stanislawsky, president of the Equal Franchise League of Nevada, addressed the University Assembly not long ago, on the general question of woman suffrage, and was sreeted by the students with three cheers and a tiger. Miss Anne Martin addressed them the following week. Miss Martin is an American girl who was converted in England, and worked for some time with Mrs. Pankhurst's society. She explained the militant movement. A local paper says: “Her lecture was attentively listened to by the audience of students, professors and townspeople."

OUnder the auspices of the Nevada Equal Franchise Society, Dr. Charles Aked of San Francisco, formerly of England, and of Mr. Rockefeller's church in New York, gave a stirring address on woman suffrage on Lincoln's Birthday in Reno, that has produced a very strong impression, The Congregational Church was full to overflowing, hundreds of people standing, and applauding the telling points of the address for the full hour Dr. Aked spoke.

Miss Anne Martin presided in the absence of Mrs. Stanislawsky, State President, and read extracts from letters from Miss Christabel Pankhurst, Lady Strachey and Rev. Anna H. Shaw, expressing their interest in the Nevada campaisgn. Judge Seeds of Reno, in a short address at the close of the meetinsg, called for an endorsement of the distinguished speaker's masterly argument, which was passed without a dissenting voice.

Mr. Robert Price sat on the platform, Mrs. Bridges and Mrs. Edsall of the Nevada Equal Franchise Society presided at the literature table, where suffrage leaflets and The Woman's Journal were distributed at the end of the meeting. Ten young ladies of Reno, in white dresses and yellow badges, the suffrage colors, collected the promise cards, which pledged nearly $200 to the cause. One member of the society gave $100.

Dr. Aked, who campaigned for the woman's amendment in California last autumn, shows such interest in the Nevada campaign that he has offered his services to the Nevada Equal Franchise Society for a month, when the question is actually before the people next year, following the passage of the amendment the second time by the Legislature. President Stubbs of the State University, a warm supporter of equal suffrage, was unable to be present, owing to a conference with Mr. Clarence Mackay in New York.

SOME NOVEL FEATURES AT SUFFRAGE HEARINC

Charts Show Growth of Women Voters in Number and Good Effect of Their Ballots

There was a crowded attendance at the legislative hearing on woman suffrage in Massachusetts last Monday evening. The hearing was conducted for the suffragists by La Rue Brown, assisted by John Weaver Sherman in behalf of the American Federation of Labor, which is championing the bill, and by Victor J. McCome for the Socialists. Charles R. Saunders conducted the hearing for the Antis.

The speakers for the submission of the suffrage amendment were ex- Congressman Samuel L. Powers, Prof. Lewis K. Johnson of Harvard, Mrs. Lionel Marks (Josephine Preston Peabody), Mrs. Maud Wood Park, John Weaver Sherman of the State Branch of the American Federation of Labor, Henry Abrahams, president of the Boston Central Labor Union, Henry Sterling and Fred J. Kneeland; against suffrage, Miss Mary S. Ames, president of the Massachusetts Antis, Miss Miunie Bronson of New York, and Prof. Willlam T. Sedgwick of the Institute of Technology.

A new feature, in which the committee seemed much interested, was two charts prepared by the suffragists. One showed the growth of the woman voter—from a little girl when only a handful of women in Wyoming could vote for President of the United States, to a tall woman now that a million women have the ballot—and the other showed the relative infant mortality in different countries, the eleven with the lowest rates being all of them countries where women vote.

In the South Carolina Senate, Senator Hall has introduced, by request, joint resolution for a constitutional amendment, giving women the right to vote, but not to hold office.

HUMOROUS

Mrs. Gibbs: “So your husband's will is law?" Mrs. Dibbs: “Yes, but can sometimes bribe him not to enforce it."

First Actor: “Ah, my boy, I owe a great deal to that old lady." Second Actor: “Your mother?" First Actor: “Heavens, no! My landlady.'—Judsge. Waterman (shaking his fountain pen): “You have no idea how easily these pens run!" His neighbor (applying a blotter to his trousers): “Oh, I have an inkling!"—Harvard Lampoon.

“Johnny, why don't you try to stand at the head of your class, instead of always being at the foot?" “Shucks! By standing at the foot of the class 1 can see out of a window, pa."—Birmingham Age Herald.

“That young son-in-law of said Mr. Cumrox, "says I'm unreasonable., And maybe he's right." “What's the trouble? “Before their marriage I objected to his attentions to my daughter. Now I'm objecting to his inattention.'—Washington Star.

woman Beforc the Law

One Year's Sentence the Penalty a Dentist Gets for Trapping a School Girl in Back Room for Sixteen Months and Making Her an Unwilling Mother

the result that the dentist was sentenced to one year in prison. This case is well known in Los Angeles and all Southern California, and has created great interest, not only because of the atrocity of the crime, but because of the mild sentence.

On August 15, 1911, the girl was rescued from a room back of the dentist's office, where she had been recognized as she looked out of the window. She had been in the room since the previous November, and had been allowed out only once, and then in company with the dentist. She had been without food for days at a time; there had been no fire in her miserable room; her clothes were in rags, and she was greatly changed in appearance.

At the trial she was asked why she remained in the room a prisoner if she was so badly treated. Her answer was, “I had to remain, for I had no clothes, and Dr. M. would buy me none." When asked why she did not call to pedestrians on the street, she said she had tried, but as the dentist's room was adjoining and he could hear her, he always rushed in and stopped her. On the day of his arrest he had tried to make her accompany him on a camping trip. She had fought against going, fearing that he meant to get her away into the mountains and desert her, or make a worse victim of her.

In the testimony it was learned that the dentist's first wife had secured a divorce from him on the ground of brutality. He married a second time, and a week after his arrest his second wife was found raving and suffering and alone. She became the mother of a dead child. By her he had three other children. It was learned that other girls of the city and county had been his victims, and that it was his boast that he could make any woman or girl his victim if he chose.

Members of the jury expressed regret that the man could not have been given a life sentence. The maximum penalty in such a case, however, is one year in prison— about one-third less time than the school girl was held a prisoner for him to abuse, yet this was the extreme penalty of the law! The San Francisco Chronicle of November as said that the dentist received the verdict of guilty with a gasp of astonishment. He appeared to have expected acquittal, and his attorney had certainly made a most eloquent plea in his behalf.

Receiving the light sentence of one year in prison and knowing the ease with which criminals of his stamp are acquitted up and down the length and breadth of the country, he was fully justified in his surprise at his sentence. But this case is only an example of the atrocities which vicious men practice on young and helpless girls, and this is only an example of the kind of punishment meted out to them by laws that have been made without the woman's viewpoint. No body of women, be they suffragists or, anti-suffragists or indifferent, could, in the very nature of things, have made the penalty for such a crime so light. The suffragist, of course, looks upon the Votes for Women movement as the inevitable opponent of such laws. The suffragist hails the Votes for Women movement as the bright dawn of a new day, in which knowledge of such cases will be brought to women's minds, and in which women will be made suffragists willy nilly, through the knowledge they obtain of the every-day workings of the law regarding women.

There is more to Votes for Women than the demand for the ballot. There is education involved, knowledge of life as it is lived and suffered; there is knowledge of the law, knowledge of the way a law is made, there is knowledge of public officials and the enforcement of the law, and with women there is involved something of conscience. Spread the knowledge of the open discrimination of the law against women, as in this awful story, and you spread Votes for Woment!

Is there any wrong being done to women and girls which you would like dealt with? Send us the facts. We shall not use your name. But sign your name and address. We may want to write to you.

DENTIST was tried in California some months ago, and on November 24 was found guilty of trapping a school girl for sixteen months in a room next to his office, where a child was born to her. The jury was out less than one-half an hour, with

Ch

Nev ir p s P

T port ball mee to cam

R the said pres mee was sion janmi with vert for cent some

A from her woul gist.

care I wo chang the c truth so I longe “H ought Why, hundr

Mrs peale sanizi Wisco York, first s river In a submi dience siastic

Agnes E. Ryan.
